Assignment Group 5
Stock market data analytics


Data information
Input Variables
There are 7 columns in the table that provide information about each stock market return index. This data set is from Istanbul Stock Exchange Data Set.

Column Name
Description
Type
sp
S&P 500 Index (New York Stock Exchange)
Numeric
dax
Deutscher Aktien Index (Frankfurt Stock Exchange)
Numeric
ftse
FTSE 100 Index (London Stock Exchange)
Numeric
nikkei
Nikkei Index (Tokyo Stock Exchange)
Numeric
bovespa
Bovespa Index (Brasil Sao Paulo Stock Exchange)
Numeric
eu
MSCI Europe Index
Numeric
em
MSCI Emerging Markets Index
Numeric
Note: The first column in the table is named date and corresponds to the date of the returns.
Output Variable
There is one column in the table that corresponds to our target value.
Column Name
Description
Type
ise2
ISE (Istanbul Stock Exchange)
Note: This column was named ise.2 in the original data set.
Numeric
Note: The column ise2 is USD-based, whereas the column ise1 (which was named ise.1 in the original data set) is 
Section 1: Data quality control 
    • What is the size of the data set? What are the type features given in the data sets? Are 
    • Is there any missing values in the data set? How to impute the data sets?
    • Is there any outliers in the data sets? Which are those? 
    • How he distributions of the features of the data look like? 
    • Summarize data sets
Section 2: Model development and analytics
    • Which model to use? Univariate or multivariate? Supervised vs. unsupervised?
    • Which Machine learning methods will be suitable and why? 

    • Identify which variable(s) are really a contributors towards churn? Is it possible to identify? How?
    • How all variables are correlated /or not correlated? 
    • How can you summarize the results using plots/graphs?
    • Develop a prediction model and compare them 
    • Describe advantages and disadvantages 
Section 3: Interpretation 
    • How results can be interpreted?
    • How your results help to make a business decision?  




