[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
We have the opportunity for a moment. That's right. Uh, and, um.

Yeah. Um, so we start, uh, we have to record the lectures.

Yeah. I mean, just of attendance and just.

Oh, yeah. And because.

Got these. Combat infantry.

Who once again with. Within.

Look at that. And then score is six four, 246424.

One by first name. We have no right to have this company.

It's awful for. 1759.

Okay, so we started merging them from the day. And next week your assignments review.

Which one is this one. Yes. 612415.

Okay. Okay. All right.

Uh, good morning everyone. So, um, I was pause for last two, three weeks.

So I'm back now and it will be I will, uh, a little bit fast because the basis of what I'm going to talk about, I think I provided.

So question is how many people practiced that weekend.

I said, how many people? One, two, three.

Okay, so if you practice, you want to check. If you don't.

When someone tells me to ask them, not me. I mean, when you go for an interview, then someone ask, then the world will teach you a very hard way.

So the two options either you learn here or someone will teach you.

Force you to learn. Okay. Anyway, all right, before we start machine learning, a couple of things.

Um, uh, have you heard about this work? Machine learning?

Everyone. Everyone heard. Right? What do you think?

What is even in your mind when someone is saying machine learning? Open programming.

What do you think? Almost any machine learning is going to be a lot easier upon.

Which means you. It means something.

You know, it could be something we were making. What could be okay. What do you think?

Cool program. Okay. And what do you think?

If someone is doing machine learning. Random forest.

Okay. Okay. It was. And what you thought.

Random forest. I mean, I you you studied it.

Okay. All right. Okay. So, um.

Yeah, we get into it. So there are a couple of points here.

Philosophical or theoretical? First of all, what is he and why we should do it or we should not do.

Okay. So let's let's go one by one.

So these are these are the kind of agenda points I see how much I can go over today I

think what do we have classes for three hours a little bit of extension extended time.

And and we can do practical. We can do practical to day one because the setting up we take.

So my intention is to provide you with some baseline study.

And then tomorrow maybe we can go into hands on and doing some kind of analysis.

Yeah. So the first question is what is machine learning and more importantly why we should study.

Okay. So I give you some examples. Okay. Some people say um, and machine learning or some people say programming.

So there are multiple different components in it. Okay.

Programming is definitely one of the part of it, but also how you train something.

To perform the role. Right? Yeah. And in this particular case, probably the machine and machine to the computer.

Again, if it is a computer you can ask if it is a super computer upset.

Um, high speed computer, very high GB these kind of classification.

We can ask further questions. Yes. Now the thing is there are many applications of the machine learning kind of approaches okay.

One of the one of the biggest would be applications would be some kind of early detection.

Okay. How are you, Candy? So, if you recall previous lectures.

We want to do descriptive statistics, right? Someone is giving you data.

We kind of. Um, looking into the descriptive statistics.

Yeah. So descriptive statistics telling you what already happened.

You do the standard deviation. Mean median mode. Graphic graphs are normally distributed and all the things um and so more focus on what have you.

But machine learning is a forward looking. Meaning what is going to happen.

Okay, so if you recall the workflow of the data analysis, what is going to happen.

So most people are focusing on that okay. So if you look into the Wikipedia type of things or machine learning a branch of artificial intelligence,

okay, on certain constructions of a study of a system that can learn from the data.

So data is a key ingredient in the machine learning settings or artificial intelligence.

So if there is no data there is no learning.

If there is no learning, there will not be any machine learning thing.

So data is the key okay. Now the the point is what kind of data would need.

What would be the characteristics of the data? That is a major question.

So the thing is, if you are trading something on the vendor.

What do you expect your outcome will be good or bad? Well.

Okay. So if you again, if that is a very subjective terminology, you define yourself or a for me it would be a lot of meetings.

There are no consistency. There is. And um, and maybe low sample size and many, many different um, aspects you can plug in.

Okay. Okay. So, so um, the question why you should use machine learning machine learning method, um, are not based on assumptions.

So so what are the statistical assumptions usually usually we um, we think about um, normality.

Yeah. And these kind of assumptions,

the normal behavior of the many of the parametric statistical method that I mentioned method includes linear regression.

Uh, you statistics, um, uh, simple Pearson based correlation, these type of things.

So machine learning methods usually don't look.

Yeah. If it is if it is a normally distributed or not normally distributed.

So inherently all the machine learning methods are actually non-parametric.

Okay. Inherently those a non-parametric image. Okay.

Or machine learning methods are non parametric like reverse is not true meaning that if you use um the um for example.

Um, Wallace faced what's called Wallace test. He's not a machine learning one, but it is a non-parametric method.

So opposition doesn't all go in that. Yeah. Some of the machine learning are inspired by the biological phenomena.

Okay. For example. Genetic algorithm. Those who are coming from mathematical background that they might have already done optimization theory.

And and, uh, in the optimization theory there is something called genetic algorithm,

which is, uh, inspired by the biological recombination and all the biological processes.

Okay. There are many other and colony optimization. So how and these making colonies is it's a um, it's a very optimized version.

And there are many others like particle swarm optimization.

So how the biologically they swarm in the, in the river.

Um, the people have developed many, many different optimization algorithms.

Okay. Um, so. Key summary of this particular slide.

What I'm trying to say is, uh, definition of the machine learning number one.

Um, there is a strong basis of machine learning why people want to use predict the future some extent based on the previously what happened.

For example, if you wanted to predict what is going to happen in financial market.

Okay, so are you going to the day to day? Moving average, how we are going to predict what is going to happen next week.

We. Okay, so maybe you have used last 50 years of the stock market data, and then you are going to predict what is going to happen.

So data is the key okay. How good the data is depends on you okay.

Or how you can make the data good. It's up to you. All right.

So. Um, differences between classical model versus statistical model.

So classical models presented with rules and data. So they had data rules.

Classical programming. They will give you a good answer. Okay.

Machine learning set. If you give the data an answer. Machine learning will learn the rule.

Okay. They will learn the rules. So this is the philosophy. How you distinguish.

But if you think about like you think about, um, your other statistical courses,

you have actually have done the first one most, you know, and, and then and then you learn the answers.

But then in the machine learning model, they learn what they are learning.

They are learning the good answers so that in future new instances are coming, they can predict accurately.

Okay. So this is a philosophical difference between two different, uh, different, um, aspects of the domain.

Okay. Now now people, I mean, I mean, and in this era, I mean, there is machine learning,

there is artificial intelligence, and there is something called deep learning. Okay.

And you will hear nowadays if you open any of the paper, uh, hybrid papers, okay, uh,

including nature or somewhere you find people are using these terminologies a lot.

Okay. Now sometimes they don't differentiate between those boundaries.

That is true. But sometimes also they think artificial intelligence is a big, big kind of a circle.

We need a subset of machine learning. And then deep learning is a very specific type okay.

And comes under machine learning but also the AI. Okay, but that is true.

In the literature. Sometimes they use interchangeably, so you need to figure out what they are trying to say and do not confuse yourself.

Yeah. Um, the thing is, in deep learning,

always will be involving some artificial neural network that is always without neural network, you can have a lot people.

Okay. So we will cover some of the things in these, uh, in this course as well.

Okay. Okay, then then, uh, this is one of the recent one.

This is one of the reasons what explainability AI or interpretable. Yeah.

Okay, so I have I have just told you about this some kind of a differentiation between deep learning and things.

This is called explainable AI, meaning that, I mean, many of the artificial intelligence model they use is a black box,

meaning that you don't know what is happening, how they are learning stuffs. Okay.

So people from other domains find it difficult to grasp, and for them they found explainable AI.

How model is explaining to solve some problem. Okay.

So there are some papers, which is very good. Uh, and you can see it's pretty funny actually, that these, these one should touch this part as well.

I mean, this is I liked it when he started also, but uh, all the movie.

So they kind of, uh, focusing on interpretability of the model.

Now, what do you mean by interpretability? Have you seen interpret interpretation of your model earlier?

How can you interpret your model? Good or bad.

So one of the example I am gives. Let's say you have done a regression model.

You can see the Beatles. Yeah. You can see the coefficients by seeing the coefficients.

You are not you. Don't you think you are interpreting high or low? So that is the interpretation I am talking about.

So very simple terminologies. So for example if I just write this equation here, uh, let's say you have some y and then you have a intercept.

Huh. It's a very simple term. No.

So so these betas. If it is, either it could be positive or it could be negative as well.

So that will give you a clue how X1X1DY.

Okay. So you can look at the coefficient size as well.

No size means big or low. If I if I make it one more time analogy you can compare.

No. So you are interpreting. No. That's the interpretability.

So but the deep learning models, you cannot really like this kind of equations because in between something's happening which is not very clear.

And that's why you want all of those things.

So interpretability best explanation simple models is perfectly present itself and easy to understand.

And it becomes very. So remember I mean whenever you are doing your job I mean you will be the maybe one person working in one department.

Let's say you don't want one department and Department one and Department two, which nothing to do with the data.

They with the strategy. Right. So this is the strategy department and this is the data department.

Now you need to actually convince them what you found.

It is useful. How do you convince they will ask okay deep learning are used.

I know you have got a very good model, but I understand. I don't understand how it works.

And then there is a need for explainability in. Okay.

And there are many different ways. I mean, we these are the method.

Why do you leave? I mean, you just remember that there are many different ways.

And actually they have developed based on, for example, Shapley, you know, corporate game theory.

Yeah. They developed who is the player? I mean, if you have.

So John Nash, I mean, you you might have seen the the Nobel Prize winner, John Nash, 1980s, who developed the game theory mainly.

Okay. His theory was okay if you're in the game, the contribution.

Even then, people are working. You can measure the contribution.

How many infinitely influence other people do? So something develop this.

This particular one. Uh. Shapley values. Yeah.

What if we have these all the shops, at least on the corporate game theory based approach.

Okay. So these becomes more interpretable. Okay, good.

All right. Types of machine learning. Okay.

So there are there are many different types, but in a very high level,

in a very high level, we call it unsupervised, supervised and reinforcement learning.

Have you heard about those tunnels? Yeah.

Okay. So unsupervised in unsupervised data mining.

Um, well, what is there? On on one of the goals.

Okay. What do you think, guys? What is that? You know, this is kind of really worth.

In February 20th. Okay.

And then we'll see what happens. What are your thoughts?

I think I'm a little late. What do you think? What do we mean in.

Things will be different for both of them and they can agree.

Okay. Okay. All right. Okay. So so let's, let's let's go through a little bit.

I think this is the basics if you don't understand it. I mean everything would be like.

Will not fall in place. Okay. So let's understand what you mean by level.

So the first thing is I use your. So there are two types of.

So. Anybody is giving you the data. There are two things that happen.

Either it is level or unknown. That's how it can happen.

Okay, here's the first thing. If anyone is giving you data. So by word level, what I meant is.

Your why? He's why he's given or why he's not given.

Why is. You recognized why, right?

You recognize why? Every recognized. Why is it automatic? Know your outcome variable.

Some people call it response variable. Some people call dependent variable.

Yeah. In machine learning, they call it limited. Same day for me.

They pass a different name. That's the limit. So it could happen there.

You. You have measured some parameters somewhere.

Somewhere you need up and you don't know what is available this time so you can project.

This is unlimited problem, meaning you need to think about some algorithms which falls under unsupervised.

Okay. No super way. There's no supervision, no level, no supervision.

Yeah. Then we look into the pattern in the data. We're trying to understand how they're turning the DNA.

You understand me? Yeah. Okay. No. So if you understand that, if I say later now, then you understand it's supervised.

Supervised? Meaning that it is guided. Supervised means someone is guiding who is guide you in ways that you.

The outcome variable is value. Okay, now why can be two types like y can be binary categorical.

Yeah. What can be good. Very good. Extremely good. Bad. Five different fossils.

Me or it could be good. Not good. Good and bad two classes.

So item Y can be in a classification settings.

We call it as a classification. Classification can be two types.

One could be the multi level classification or multiple classes classification.

Or it could be the binary one. Yeah. So why. You can see very easy I mean in the picture you can see this is a binary class two color two classes.

Simple. Yeah. White also can be quantitative in nature.

So that make a regression right. Why is it measurable ways of quantitative.

Why is not a class. So in that case it will be the regression problem.

So first thing to recognize someone is giving you data. Is it a level or.

If it is a level you think about then you ask yourself is it is it a class classification or regression type of image.

And then you need to decide on the method so your strategy goes first.

I mean, not that if someone is giving an insight, doing something normally doesn't work either.

Yeah. And then some people reinforce making a sequence of decisions with complex environments like,

I don't know if you if you studied Markov chain, Monte Carlo mCMC. Yeah.

So these are the mathematical concepts. So he's thinking learning from the sequences.

Yeah. So we are not going to go over too much on this one. Okay. Because I think there are a lot of things we can discuss here in this.

Talk to us. Okay. But before I move ahead, do you understand if I say unsupervised learning method, what does it mean?

Meaning that I'm talking about some kind of algorithms where there's no way.

I am discovering some patterns in the data. And what is the definition of the pattern?

We will talk about how we can how we can discover. Yeah.

Okay. Great. So. So I think.

I think this is a very basic I have discussed already.

It is very theory. I will move it. Okay. So I mean as I say, statistical machine learning goes hand in hand.

So that really changes. Okay. Network graphs in statistics they call it is a model.

Okay. Weight parameter. So you recognize many of the people people interchangeably use okay.

Learning fitting. In machinery we call it okay.

Model is not learned. We call it a new feature line. Or if it is not a line, non-parametric line, spline, non-parametric polynomial or whatever.

I mean, not necessarily. It has to be a linear.

It could be non-linear, like a spline model. Okay. Generalization.

We talk about generalization. Yeah. We call it is it is performance okay.

And this is a quite important I mean how general your model is.

If your model is biased not general, what is going to happen then you along with some strong results.

What else. You have developed a model is not generalizable.

What? The meaning of generalizable meaning. If the new things are happening in future, you cannot predict.

We call it a big problem, actually. It's a big problem in the literature.

It is many people trying to overcome that. We call it poverty.

So if someone is giving you data, your results are extremely good, but you cannot generalize.

It's a problem. And there are different ways we can generalize, and we call it as a generalization.

Okay. And there are many other things you will see I'll be using, you know, in interchangeably.

Okay. All right. So, uh, also, there is something to recognize here.

I mean, if you could see the first picture, input some black box model and some people called black box,

there is there is a methodology we call it is a glass box.

Black box. Glass box that's glass is transparent. So there is a transparency in the model model building.

So recognize black box model versus glass box model okay will come in detail.

But this time you know what is important. You should I would be I would send you maybe today or tomorrow some sort of uh literature.

So heat reading I mean, if you want to get this sort of thing, I would take you, if you want, read it, and then maybe you talk about it.

Yeah. Otherwise you cannot you cannot get based out of this, this particular model.

Okay. Then input then here you recognize some kind of linear combination here.

So meaning that I can explain my model. No.

You eat. At least I know the linear combinations. Yeah. Or maybe some non-linear combination.

I can write a mathematical function. And then? And then and then explain the thing.

So this is the differences between black box. This is called glass box kind of approach.

And eventually glass box models are interpretable.

Yeah. Glass box models are interpretable. Logistic regression.

Black box or classical? Blah blah blah.

Why? Because you can see the Beatles. You can see them officiates all of these events.

Yeah. All right. Good. Okay. This is something.

I mean, if you're typing Google, uh, you can find people if you type in some sort of like that, if you generate some kind of key word.

You will see people are using the learning a lot models, graphs model patterns.

These are the related terminologies around. Okay.

Okay. Now now I just know how to set up some bases. These bases is about what is machine learning.

That's a machine learning. Differences between black box and classrooms.

Now any machine learning algorithms need some kind of a strategy, some kind of a steps, some kind of a steps.

It's not random. Okay. Now, what are the steps? First you ask questions.

Okay, so the questions are focusing on easy. Is it a supervised problem.

Or is it an unsupervised problem? Okay. For example, are you given a financial data let's say in in in London stock market data okay.

Last 30 years okay. But then you just wanted to find that if there are any um, and uh but but London data.

Right. So so it could be people are coming from across different globe.

You wanted to understand if there are any cluster of or subtypes or, um, specific people are investing in London stock market.

Okay. You don't have any specific Y in that you are not targeting Y.

But then same data, same data. You can ask, okay, what are the age group of the people investing in London.

Right. So this is more targeted questions. So age reacting is not variable in this case.

And that we differentiate between you supervised and unsupervised.

More so the question very important number one input data structure.

We come back to that. We know how the data structure look like.

Remember in this course we are talking about all the data is given.

A structured data structure means you have rows and columns okay.

So I will come back to. So I actually I'm going to discuss all of them all the all the steps in more detail algorithm.

And then you can think about algorithm method which method you are going to use and you digestible.

Okay then now meters weights. In the machine learning models there are some extra parameters.

Okay. There are some extra parameters. We need to optimize.

Because they are extra in the model, they are called as a hyper parameter.

Hyper. Hyper means more. Okay.

So for example, if I give you ten measurement, people usually consider ten parameters.

But then in machine learning models in each model, either they have a 1 or 2 extra parametres.

Those parameters are called as a hyper parameter, and those parameters need to be optimized in your model.

If not, they will be overestimated results. Okay.

So that's the parameter. And then training and testing. So the thing is I mean uh sometimes and what does training and testing mean.

Meaning that you are trying to figure out how your model is generalizable or not, that that's all you want to understand.

Okay. For example, if someone is giving 1000 samples, 1000 individuals, their activities in the bank or somewhere in the market,

activities, how they buy the parties or whatever, uh, measurements are there.

Now, the problem is, if you try to generalize, you trying to generalize with 1000, your model will be super optimistic.

So what people do people is divide the data random.

People divided it randomly and based on that they say, okay, 40%,

I am going not to use my in my model, meaning that let's say 400 people randomly chosen from 1000.

I'm not going to use it and keeping it separate. And 600 people.

I am going to develop my model. And then I'm going to predict my moral quality on 400 individuals.

Okay. So we'll go a little bit more in detail. And then you evaluate how your model is performing.

Is it good model. That model. All right.

So so and then based on your evolution kind of a we we go back to the question and then maybe you can define it.

Yes. Um, how do we identify the salamanders.

And as you say, these are interrelated peaks.

There are peaks each. So because I haven't talked about any model yet.

So, so let's say. Let's say I talking about ex model and his ex model probably, and he's a well known in Ex-model there would be two.

Let's say I have a model X maybe one hyperparameter.

Uh, model Y. Different model. Not model. Actually. Method.

Method one. Method two. Param hyperparameters. So these are all fixed because I haven't reproduced the method yet.

It would come. So I think, for example, with your input data or data structure, for example,

of legal unlabelled or supervised unsupervised, isn't it something, something structurally to control.

Or when we identify the algorithm then we will fix them because we commonly here the hyper parameter is coming.

But you know I get to the terminology problem okay I'll try to explain.

So so I mean here let's say I have a uh I have a matrix.

Okay. I have a matrix, I have 1000, 1000 individual and is equal to 1000.

Okay. And I am looking at I am looking at um, let's say I have a 50 measurement.

Okay. My measurements are in the top.

It could be anything from the age, gender, how many frequencies they are coming into the market or something, what they are buying.

But what is the most frequent buy that it could be anything, right? So here ideally you already got 50 parameters.

You see what I mean? If development is already built. Some people call it quality measurement.

Some people call it parameters, some people call it is it um, uh, a column, some people call it is a video the same thing.

These are simply what all I am saying. If you are using X method.

There will be we the method, there will be something associated.

Which is not here. So this would be 50 plus one method one if I play it.

If you were 50 plus one. No. Because this 50 parameter from the data point method itself bringing one extra.

That's why just got hyper. You understand that?

Yeah. So don't confuse with the terminology. I mean, I think I got your point.

I mean, maybe you have got. So here any cognizance. Measurements are in columns.

They have different names. Some people call it is uh a predictor variable as well.

Speaker variable. Uh measurement variables parameter.

Same thing. Yeah, we come back to that.

We I mean, and this is just outline. I will take each of the blocks.

Okay. Do anybody has any more questions? No.

Okay, good. And then. Okay. So.

Okay, so I think I have I have covered it. Okay. Let's talk about the questions.

What type of questions you can ask. Now question can be asking two types of doesn't matter what that.

You. You can always. You can't go wrong either you ask questions associated with your observations or samples or individual basis questions,

or you ask in terms of the measurement or parameter or column.

So it cannot be more than that. Okay.

So for example observation individually how observations are cluster.

Next to 1000 patients, not 18. Not patients, I mean individuals in this case, they might be coming from different places.

No, they have a different, um, an income, maybe they have a different, um, and uh, lifestyle in their.

But then there might be some similarity to one of those 1000.

No, I mean, they might be coming from a similar ethnic group, right?

And just because they are coming to the group, they might have some beliefs and restrictions in the today.

No. So if I say 1000, I am sure we can identify.

Subgroup of individuals who behave similarly. Do you agree?

Do you see where I'm coming from? But then the question is more about individual level.

I forget about you measurement, but now. Yeah.

Yeah. Okay. So but then you also recognize when I'm asking questions from the individuals.

Do we have a target variable here? When am I asking this question?

For example, is there any subpopulation within 1000?

Do I have any outcome variable? Yes or no? No.

Do you recognize it? So I'm asking. I'm just asking. Okay. Even one one on 1000 individuals.

If they're in substructure. That is what my question is. But I am not targeting any target variable.

I am not asking if the age group 16 or something like this.

So. These particular. Until this.

This is actually an unsupervised type of question.

Yeah. So. Spend time more on that.

What is the questions, frankly? It's not. Solution is.

If you try to do with a 100. But then why? I mean you need to understand the basic problem.

Okay, great. Like. Outlier.

Okay, we'll come back with it. Then you can ask me questions on the video of this and the feature as well.

Like how variables are feature cluster, which variables are making differences and when classes which variables supported.

It is possible you but many many many questions. You can also.

Okay. So you can reduce the dimension of your data 50.

Maybe 50 is not. You don't need it. You need only the age and income.

You can predict your Y whatever is good. So you don't need very.

How do you reduce redundant variable? So let's say I want you to.

Okay. Yeah. This is what I said. Based on the correlation one way.

What other way? We think we can do. Good thing.

How? Yeah.

So? So. Yeah. So the thing is. We can probably we can rank them.

We can rank them, which is more important and less important. On the way, or we automatically automatically select some of them from the data.

Okay. We go over all of these. Okay. So so the question is and you can ask all sort of questions and you can't miss,

uh, if someone is giving you data one of the questions would be lying here.

Yeah. All right. So question is very important.

So this is the first one. Second one. Input data structure.

Recognize input data structure. So for example I am just trying to give you, uh, a cartoon.

So just look at the cartoon here. So this is a this is the same as this, this matrix I have drawn right.

And drawing in an independent cartoon vision.

So this is your x given x in galaxies in particular matrix you have measurements or variables in the columns.

You have samples observations individuals. And you wrote okay.

There is no one else for me. If not, this approach will be unsupervised approach.

You forget about the supervised algorithm. Now you need to think about what are the methods.

We had already in unsupervised vision. Okay, first thing second.

Why you response is why? But then why is quantity okay?

Why is wanted. And if you want to link these.

So if it is a quantity that will be first supervised problem within the supervised problem because Y is quantitative,

it is a regression problem that Y could be classes.

As I say in this case it is a classification problem okay.

Now here there is no way. But then you got a response and we did y and predictor x.

So you think about maybe this is y matrix could be demographics of the of the of your um individuals.

And these could be the activities in the main. So this is a huge data two different matrices.

I am trying to link two matrices. You're also equipped with food.

You need to use different machine learning approaches. These approaches, all they produce are quite different in.

Okay. You never. Did you encounter any woman?

Why is not a vector? Why is a matrix?

So it is a very different situation. So we use canonical correlation analyses called correlations.

You might not have Harvey. That's why this is a little bit of parity in terms of the modeling strategies.

And we'll be discussing these three and in detail.

Okay. Great. All right. Many, many different methods.

I mean, I mean, it's like a 150 different methods. You can you can use, uh, you can, um, and either study there's a different ways you can study.

So supervised decision tree assembly support vector machine and name neural networks tree regression these are all part of it.

And these are few actually not all of them. Unsupervised hierarchical clustering K-means.

There is a Bayesian hierarchical clustering. There is a, uh, veteran recognition.

There is a list across many. Okay.

It's not possible to teach everything, but I would like to give you a general framework where you can you can take any method and learn the basics.

Okay. So um, again reinforced learning Markov decision process where the sequential decision.

So. So it's like it's like yeah. Um the last one actually.

So let's say you have, you have done some process. There is a sequences okay.

Sequences represent the time. Yeah. So for example d1 ts equal to t1 t2 d3.

That can be either day or month based on your problem.

And and you predict on day two. And this knowledge is propagated.

So this is a kind of a propagated propagating uh um algorithm basic.

So your reinforcement, you are reinforcing uh, your methodology.

Okay. Anyway, so so let's get into a little bit more on the other things.

Um parameter versus hyper parameter. So I think, I think I have discussed this one little bit more.

Um, this part is machine learning methods inherently, inherently associated with some extra parameter.

That's the number with like the hyper parameter. For example, be in random forest model.

You need to decide how many tree you are going to. It's a forest, so it's all about trees.

How many trees you are going to plant. Is it 20, 30, 55 minutes?

You know who is going to give the decision? We we.

But from where? Data. From data. You don't think decision data should make the decision.

So that's the key. We we so if so this is funny.

Thing is you know sometimes people come to us and saying okay I want to use this. Then I ask okay why what what motivated the first question?

Second question would be that based on your experience, this is the data.

But then you need to change your data while you are confident it's going to work.

Okay. So there is a deal of versatility. So for for the people who are doing the data analytics, they don't have any kind of method.

Why? Because data change, method change and virtually everything is changeable.

So if you are fixing one one thing, it's not going to work. Rather be flexible and see you apply the five different method and choose the best one.

Okay, so so people that's why. I mean, you need to recognize, I mean, whom you are talking.

And some people will come to you and say, oh, you know, I've been using deep learning.

And then I ask how many samples you have? 85 again. Oh it's nice.

You can have five sample. You cannot even learn 84 deep learning, even normal simple linear regression.

Probably the best one in that. Okay. And one very important thing I wanted to say.

Don't think just because you use deep learning. You are like a king.

No, don't think like. And people. People have this kind of mindset nowadays.

Many. I myself participated in hardware competition.

Simple method like regression.

Big. Sometimes a big winner. So there was a genius back and it was a intercutting like one word.

There is a competition. So he was it was um. Uh, organized by M.I.T. and Harvard in combination.

Okay. And they have selected 17th Australia. Italy.

I was the point of in other countries. So we have combined three different countries.

And what our job is, they have given us data and they would rank all the predictions.

Okay. They have rank all the predictions and the only paper on that.

And this paper would be in Nature Biotechnology. Nature biotechnology. I rank them in factories around 53, I think, or maybe more than 60.

And it's a very, very important channel. So we have seen their.

Many of the algorithms. You don't need big stuff. You need a small stuff.

We had logical thinking. Okay, so if someone is saying they use deep learning, then maybe you want to understand how many samples they have.

If they have used, um, uh, usually millions of samples are good.

Good size, I mean, or maybe few hundred thousand.

Otherwise the model can apply. Okay, so so, I mean, I have seen many people say, oh, I use deep learning.

So then. So what, you have always deep learning. Show me the interpretability.

Show me the predictability. So I will ask questions. Yeah. So I don't take easy if you do the modelling stuff.

Okay. All right. So here in the classical statistics view for example how many components need to be used please.

Have you had a good place. I don't know.

Have you heard about partially square distributed analyses? No.

Okay. So I'll tell you, uh, these are very statistical models.

I mean, I mean, people are selling nowadays as a machine learning. I mean, these guys have discovered these plays.

One of the methodology. They actually invented around the Scandinavian countries of Denmark, Sweden and those countries.

And they invented the 1960s. Forget about. They are not machine learning or they are classical statistical multivariate model.

Okay. So. I mean, in these types, for example, the components and I mean, you know, principal component analysis.

Yeah. Maybe you have heard about yet how many components you need to take if you are done and you might be doing component one.

Component two is always a variance. Yep. So like the similar kind of approach.

Okay. But then some point we need to make a decision. How many how many components are good or bad.

Yeah. So recognize those limitations.

Recognize those uh those kind of aspects in your model. Okay.

Good. So, um. I'm sure if I send it on this, this walk.

This is a stupid journey. Uh. It's in.

Maybe I'll send it on this one. Uh, this is a quite a good one. Um, okay.

The final thing is, even so, you need to understand how modal is behaving.

Is it a good model or bad? So I think I have already talked about it.

So you have a let's say this is your sample space. Okay.

You randomly sample okay through color in this case maybe two different binary classes.

Okay. Let's say it's a classification problem. Yeah.

One one color representing maybe. Um. And good.

Another color representing the back. What you do, you randomly sample.

Yeah. And then you develop your training set. Okay.

You test it and then you kind of develop your alpha,

and you build up some kind of function in your training set, and you predict what is happening in your test.

And you repeat the process many, many times. Okay.

You repeat the process numerous times and then you try to get a generalization of you.

Okay. And if your your intention would be higher how low the error is.

If your error is low your equity would be high. So inversely proportional.

Model error is inversely proportional to the accuracy.

Yeah. Okay, now there is a approach.

I mean, I don't know if you heard about it. This approach is called cross validation.

Have you heard about this? Cross validation?

No. If. If not. So what does it mean? It means that someone is giving you data.

What you do. You a similar philosophy, right? Um, you randomly divide the data.

How how so you can divide the data is maybe ten times or five times if you do ten times that or 20.

If you divide five times, it's four people. Yeah.

So there is not any kind of em. Um.

There is not any kind of a, um. I mean, it's very subjective.

I mean, it's not like a one would be wrong.

One would be right and think so you can use five for ten for sometimes people leave out one one individual and predict on one individual.

So week one I guess I leave one out. Leave one out only.

Just one. You who left and then you iterate all the symbols one by one.

And then you estimate on average, yet you estimate on average.

What are the error rate? Okay. So that's coming to that.

So and you got a debt. What is there for me to apply in space.

You have a vessel here. Yes. If you see that is changing.

Have you seen. But then I'm covering all the data. No.

If I combine all that, all the test is representing my data.

But then I'm not using it a single go. I am using in each day, you know, different days and then what we have in him.

So my iteration one, two, three, four, five, five iterations by at least once.

One individual got addicted, which is not used in my training.

And then if I run 100 times. 100 times one single individual predicted on average.

Okay, that that will give you a very strong modeling image, you see.

So we call it as a stratified cross validation stratified.

We are stratifying the population with stratifying the individual. Yeah.

You could you could do it in a single script in our in Python as one single script.

You don't need to do anything. You just. Then program to do it for you.

But if you don't know the concepts, you don't know what how they work. Okay.

Um, how should we speak? Okay, okay. So I, I think I have, I have vocabulary, uh, like, is used for picking variables.

So what is going to happen actually in each of the split.

Some variables may be important. Right. If this measurement is important they will show up in each of the forms.

And that gives the stability of the moral stability of your mission.

For example, here in this part, maybe one of the variables.

Yeah. No. Yeah. See what I mean? Yeah.

Maybe little. So we can we can rank those measurements, which is coming every time.

If they are coming every time, they must be important. Okay.

They must be important. So you can see the philosophy, how you could have done all of those things at all.

Yeah. So, um, yeah. So, uh, any question, by the way, this is a quite important part.

And we are going to do some exercise tomorrow. How we develop those things.

So for the cross. So how do we decide hyperparameter.

We do cross-validation to decide how much hyperparameter I need for my model.

So data is decidedly not we. Yeah.

Okay. Okay. Yeah. And then. And then.

And that's what I see. Double cross validation is recommended due to hyper parameter.

So what people do people actually estimate in hyper parameter and fit.

Some hyper parameter model and then it looks very abstract actually now, because you are not doing it.

It sounds a bit abstract, but I have to say it. Otherwise you cannot.

You can go for the skipping those things. Yeah, but.

I would say, think about those families, that their villages would play a very, very major role.

From what I'm going to discuss again, those part some extent. Yes. All right.

Evolution, how we are going to develop the model. So, um.

Uh, define your error rate. I mean, define your error rate means how you are going to do that or are you going to take your accuracy or,

uh, uh, different uh, there are different matrices. Okay.

So first you need to think about which matrix you are going to look into.

Okay. Then you speak the data usually three uh, three parts.

I mean sometimes I um, previous like I talked about training and testing.

Uh, but here they are. They are also saying as a validation.

Okay. It is optional. Sometimes data doesn't allow you to do it because it is limited.

Okay. So it is an optional settings okay. Um.

Oh by the way sometimes people use interchangeably testing and validation.

Sometimes I would say training sample versus validation sample I meant is simple.

Okay. So these are the, the terminological. Uh, um.

Uh, problem, but. But as long as you understand the process, I think you would be okay.

Yeah. Um. Okay.

So training sets have the features use cross-validation.

And and then if you cannot do cross validation maybe you can leave one uh some of the percentage of the data.

And we'll talk about it more tomorrow. It is beta right at the moment.

Okay. Um, rule of thumb usually people use, uh, 60% training, 20% test, 20% validation.

If you don't have any validation, people tend to use 40% of your validation.

Okay. And we can specify in your script just add one single thing.

So P or something equal to 60 or 40. That's it.

Everything is is built for you. Everything all the functions, everything is built for you.

You just need to recognize your problem and solve this one.

Okay? So again, I'm saying this is a very kind of a subjective.

It depends on the data. It depends on what you want to do. And as I say, I mean tomorrow will be good.

I mean, we take one of the models and go through the entire process. Okay.

Okay. Evaluation evaluations. How we are evaluating the models.

Is it a good model? Bad model. So in widely people use accuracy.

Sometimes people use as a confusion matrix. This is I mean not to confuse your course confusion matrix I mean they call it confusion.

But anyway, so it is a table that records number of instances in a data set that for a particular category.

So there will be true positives, there will be false positives. And we make a table.

How many true are true. How many are false positives. And that's what they call it is a confusion matrix okay.

Uh precision recall sensitivity. Those parameters we look into that you can be more in detail.

Okay. So just to give you a what is the this is a confusion matrix.

You can see the. So this is a binary classifier.

Yeah. Binary. Plus you have a positive positive and negative plus meaning that say that some of the sample some of the individuals true positive.

So it will come in in first order okay. Some of them would not go to there.

And then false positives they are not true but still coming in your model.

So we need to recognize those things in detail and and true negative many meaning they should be there but they are not here.

Okay. So um, and then based on that we can all the.

Precision recall. Mathematically, we can, uh, we can make a ratio and other things in general.

Okay. There are many, many others. But but as I see, um, going into a practice, um, uh, it will be easier and more clear.

Okay. Um, sometimes people use, uh, f measurement.

F measure is a metric and f test statistics or f measure and not statistics.

Actually it is a measure.

And you can see the mathematical function, how they um, uh, how they estimate recall is again depends on your true positive for positive.

So the base is actually the confusion matrix. So once you have the confusion matrix we can derive the the model evaluation parameter.

And there are many you can see here there are many many many things.

But it is as I said people are using usually usually sensitivity specificity F1 score AUC okay.

These are the most widely used parameters uh in in the classification context.

So important is this is a classification model. So what about your regression matrix.

If it is a regression then you look into other categories.

You look at the mean squared error how much error model is making.

So if it is a high error. Higher means less likely.

Okay. And then we look at adding a C. Uh, median is root mean square.

And there is another one is called R-squared variation explained by the model.

Okay. So mathematically we can write our MSE.

So uh, guess he is um, uh, um a c is inversely proportional to the R square.

Okay. Uh, let me see of the model. So it is a regression model. Okay.

In the regression context see if it is so you want if r MSE or an AP m a p e whatever you call if it is a low,

so you r-square will be high and then and r squared is a percentage.

Okay. So sometimes asking is a partial meaning model explaining.

And then if you draw something it will be kind of a regression model kind of thing.

Okay. Previous one. So classification because it is. Um, true positive false positives and false binary pluses.

Remember, those are the previous ones. So previous one. If I write accuracy we can do AUC, we do F1, we do sensitivity specificity okay.

And all of them is coming from your confusion metric section.

Okay. Are you still here?

Okay. And now things will go way ahead, you know? I mean, I mean, it's, uh.

And that's why he goes. And actually, what I do about the data and I run machine learning models on the.

So those who have not done it, please do it. Yeah. So I think it will be useful for, you know, from the hardware magazines.

I'm done. Okay. I'll get my money and go back. Who cares?

Yeah, but this is for you. Yeah. So if you are serious, then you get the best out of them.

Yeah. I also want to recognize that you can do it. I mean, you are coming from different medical schools where I.

He speaks many things to really be amazed by medical science undergrad students.

And they are deep learning models. So if you think you're going to do I do trust you.

So so recognize that you can do it. Theoretically it complex, but together we can we can find a way.

Okay. All right. So I'll stop here.

I will start tomorrow. Something on the regression.

And I will introduce some high dimensional statistics on the regression warnings.

And then we'll jump into the package. Okay, good.

Then you started your friends and filled to come. Okay, good.

Thank you. You have.

Please do not think about it. Okay? Now we are going to learn a lot of.

