[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
The. I think that.

Them. Um.

You. Okay.

Good afternoon everyone. Um, you can start. So the last time we started.

Talking about. Um. Some basic so far and you have seen.

Some basic operations. Those operations are of, um. And really, it's probably going to last and we have to go through those basics.

Um, but just to recap. Um.

What? How many types of data structure are?

What are the types? Data structure.

Oh, I didn't know. What are the different data structure in R?

I am not talking about data types. I'm saying data structure.

You have a market. Actors.

Yeah. What is the difference between metrics and data frame?

Listed as one that you know. What is the difference between metrics and data frame?

With. Basically, we seemed to think that it seemed that we could somehow.

You implement these elements in the matrix need to be the same, right?

The data for any of the different types. Yeah. And and so so matrix ADT data type.

Okay. And in terms of the data frame, we can combine multiple.

Data points. But the problem is.

The size need to be the same. Then if you think about the least, what is the difference in list versus dataframe?

If you consider listed unstructured data frame rates in.

No, I'm asking mostly based on the content. So for example, you say.

I mean, if it is a metrics they need to be same data, right? Data frame can accommodate multiple different data types.

But then what is the differences between least if I use a least.

What is the difference between least versus. Yeah.

So least can accommodate. Not the same length.

Okay? Definitely. Okay. So so these are.

This is really important because many of the functions are written.

The main basis is that is a data structure. Okay.

Um. Yeah.

And then also we have seen. Some exercise using the phone function.

Okay, we have done some very basic stuff using correlation.

Type of approaches. Okay. Um, so we go a little bit more deep today and.

I will also talk about. General principle of data analysis.

What do you mean by general principle? General principle means it doesn't matter what capability you are getting.

You need to follow a similar type of strategy. Yeah.

So that's called general principle, meaning that if someone is giving your credit card to someone,

you marketing it or someone is giving you opinion data, someone is giving you many different types.

It doesn't matter really. So that was the general principle.

Of the data analysis. Okay.

So we have kind of a kind of talked about a little bit on those ones.

Um. But then I and also a little bit more on that.

I mean, you know, the art is very much case sensitive. Okay.

So if you try one object, you want it to retrieve the object.

We go lower case versus upper case. You cannot retrieve if you make so.

So it will be very careful. There is other thing in the same aspect.

You cannot reuse the function as object. For example, if I say mean, mean is a name of a function.

You cannot use that object name. Okay.

All right, but there are some kind of a cheat sheet.

So if you type in Google or some other cheat sheet, meaning that it will help you, I mean, you can keep it if you take every one of you.

Yeah, it's like a shortcut version of things.

So for example, you can see and I will go to some of the cheat sheet and we talk about, for example, many of the operations you have done.

Selecting literally the positions. You can see what that means.

This is a little bit more comprehensive, but very condensed.

Okay. And.

In the same line. Intellectually that somebody if you could think of a little bit carefully,

you can see there are different types of the reader data types, different methods and functions.

Uh, different environmental related functions. For example, if you want to list parentheses, you can use all the variables you are working on.

So this is really kind of in. Guiding document.

If you just pick a theme or maybe keep your background, it will help you a lot.

Yeah. Uh, and this is already the, uh, uh, perfume in the canvas.

Uh, you can have a look into that. But today, what we are going to do, we'll start with the exercise, because we wanted to recap what we have done.

Okay. So in that respect. I want you to execute this.

We are. There is already some data for.

Okay. So. So when you install the R base package. Some of the data coming by default.

Okay. For example, this is called air quality data. This is coming when you install the base package.

Okay, I'll show you. For example, if I.

So if I say dee Dee. Maybe I'll make a.

Okay. I made object for team. Uh, okay.

Sorry. Maybe first I would like to load.

Okay, so what I've done. Like that data air quality.

So I know the name of the name of the object built in air.

If you take capital it, it's not going to be working. Okay.

And then. What I've done here. I have stored.

This entire thing. Okay.

So I'm typing. By I mean I did a mistake, I'm typing here. But but it's alright.

In that case you might want to use this pen. The top pen.

What type? Okay, so what I've done.

I made the object for. And I stood.

The data entity. Is it clear? So my object is no.

Now, the first thing I would like to check. Time. Time of DT for dimension.

How many rows? How many columns? Okay.

Now, sometimes data become very, very big. You cannot really take my name with you.

I mean, for example, if it is a 1 million rows, it is not advisable.

If you take 1 million rows, you cannot see any. So it is always.

Suggested you check a few rows.

You can't. You want. I don't want to train 153 rules.

Six column is fine, but I really don't want to print 153 rules.

Okay, so I am interested in a few rows in the top of the data.

So I'm typing head of. If you type head function by default, it will select first six rows.

First six rules. It will give me an idea what type of data.

So I can see this is an eight month temperature. We got something awesome.

They have measured some of them. So these are what you have. Quality composition of the air quality.

Is it clear? Now, if there is a head, there should be one thing.

If you that did. What will happen last six tonight and see.

Well it is. Taking last.

Something. They have six rules. Okay.

It is very useful command. For big data because you don't really want it to print and it is not usable.

I mean. Okay, now there is something.

Can you notice something here in this case? If there's anything, that's what it all.

You. We'll get it. Maybe you don't need it. I don't know if there's something.

Not this data. Something else in here. And if we're not in.

Okay. It could be anything. It could be anything.

And we thought about it. But also it is a good practice.

You check what is the structure? What is the data structure of the air quality?

So what we do is dot matrix.

I am asking questioner if this is a matrix.

What do you think? Yes. Okay, well, we'll check it.

Is matrix D false.

No. Why it's not going to.

Have some concerns. Thank you sir. You got it, Eddie.

Uh, well, I mean, you're close, but it's not that I got into little.

That's up to second guessing data structure. No, that's not my question.

Is it? It is one type of data structure.

It's not a matrix. Okay.

We can check it out. Is dot data dot frame true?

Why? Because it's true though. No label means what?

William is one. You. Never again. That's why I'm saying.

I mean, I started the discussion today. The differences. So you go back to the definition, what I'm saying.

I am saying if it is a metric, that's what you're saying. He's saying what is different?

Different classes of data. No, no, no.

This be easy. You're easy to number. Yeah, it's already been confirmed.

Yeah, we've got the number. If the integer is exactly the norm.

So that's why it is a dataframe.

DataFrame is a combination between numeric and non-numeric, or it be the same size, but it can accommodate numeric versus let's say, character.

It also can accommodate character as well. In a matrix.

I can have all characters or all numeric, right.

Or length. Or just numeric. It's usually the numerical.

It's usually the numeric one in the in that particular case in the in the context of our.

Yeah. So what I'm doing.

So what I've done so far is. You can see your here as well.

Many of the first heading. There are some missing. Harry.

Okay. Maybe there is something else. It's a combination of two different datatypes.

Okay. So. For? For this exercise I have done first one.

We have read air quality data which is inbuilt. We have checked the dimension using the function.

Print first and last few data set. In that case, we have used the head and tail.

Then I am asking, what is your observation in each of the columns? Do you find something is not normal?

What is the issue? Do you think you can overcome that? So I am talking about you have seen enabling.

The question is. What do with it? What do you do?

What do you. If I didn't like it.

I can find the name of.

Perhaps. Okay.

You know, I could stay here. Yeah. Okay. What would you say?

What do you waiting for? We say what?

Yes, indeed. I asked why he didn't see any.

How do you we. Okay. What do you mean?

What do you mean? Obviously you know how you make the decision.

So you probably do the data differently. You can do that right through merging it.

For example you need the average. You don't need to anything really. Zero.

Okay. We will come back to that. So. So I want to see if you guys would be sufficient.

I mean, I would like to think. Okay. What do you mean?

Like, what do you got? What would you give? Anything. How do I charge that?

Oh, yeah. Uh, yeah. Well, that's.

I don't think you have anything to eat.

What do you get? You do? Yes.

What do you mean? You know? You know. And so once you get.

Don't you think? This way? I think my mother.

And usually on the beach. All right.

So. Okay. So this is. This is a good discussion.

The reason I mean it's not about right or wrong. I mean, if you were someone saying we mean something.

I mean, it's not like someone is going to be hanged. You know? I mean, that's fine.

I mean, this is the things I want that you know. What do you want?

And then we would see that we think so this is actually debatable thing in the literature.

First of all, any animal, meaning that not even a yes, you would be okay.

Now some people. What? I have seen people repeatedly do things wrong.

Zero means this is a value, you know. And then you don't know.

What is it? So there is a difference between that particular value versus you do not know.

It could be anything right. Okay. Now. So someone said you do the part of pre-processing 100%.

So this is a big, big, big issue.

I mean, whenever you're getting a job, either data analytics will be spending 70% of your time on the processing the data, cleaning the data.

That is a very crucial step of the data analysis. It doesn't matter what you know.

I mean, I mean, I am using biological data, but it really doesn't matter. It matters.

Are you following again? This is a part of the general principles of data analysis.

Okay. I know Anna is not out there.

Don't consider anybody who is an open up in a usual meeting that now people can write thesis for thesis on the missing value imputation.

Big topic in the statistics.

Okay, now the process of replacing an all imputation process, the replacing any by something that something is individual.

Some people say okay I am going to be mean that.

I'm going to need it. Some people say I'm going to get redundant.

I would say I will develop my prediction model. I will use canon method in unison with someone who said no, I will be used multiple months.

Someone said no, I'm going to use. So there is a there is a different point of view, different other things.

Okay. Now what we can do, we can think about.

How best we can improve. But, but, but I will tell you some general principles, but not necessarily.

We have to do everything in this class. But you need to know.

Think about this situation because we are talking about think about this situation.

Oh, by the way, this is your code, okay. This is your attendance code.

It's not working. There is nothing. Okay, so what happens?

You know. Next it. Uh, someone is giving you data.

It's always giving better and. And there were so many ballots.

There were some envelopes. There were some envelopes. And.

Before Inadvertence. If you don't consider your name, your distribution of your data look like something like this.

You could make one.

You didn't consider any, let's say removing mean of what you possibly making, removing the rules or something and you withdraw its revision.

It look like this. Okay with me.

And then you have done. Imputation process.

These imputation process may be done by me.

Imputation. You are giving me your only vacancy and just replaced by an by the value of what mean value of my column.

My measurements. Yeah, I took the meat and I went, well, once I have done.

I got my distribution is like this. So this is my original distribution.

This is my mean then imputed distribution. And then mean well.

And then someone did median. Someone did median. So the median value will look like this.

You find it. If you are wrong, you can not. And then what is?

Your distribution lies here. You created your own detection. You created your own data, actually.

If I do. I guess it was called Wallace Nest. I'm sorry, Mr. Wallace.

Called, um. Uh, kolmogorov-smirnov test, which is comparing distributions and generate the probability.

If I hit a significance, you should not use this problem.

Your data should look like your imputed data some extent.

We follow your original distribution. If you do a statistical test you don't like any significant.

You not only focus or you have a Z, there would be different differences.

So that would be the correct way. So you should not use mean.

You should not use median. These are all wrong. Yes, but this depends upon the, like the data set.

Yeah. Of course, of course. Depends how serious it is. Of course.

I mean, these are all depending on the data you cannot pick. Oh I know, mean median and it will be applicable to everyone.

No it is not applicable to every data set but they will be applicable to some.

There could be one question is did you check some.

You redefine what is some 1 to 1 data to be computed.

So it could be an interview. So be open about that one.

So if someone is saying oh mean well then I would like to see is a logical data efficient.

Oh sorry no patience. If the person is coming multiple times in the bank or somewhere.

And I would like to know in detail. And I also ask why it is missing.

Is it someone is coming in the, in the bank and you put a question early and this guy may be fighting in the home and coming.

No no no no no no no. And then I don't like is it the case or is like something else.

So it's a big, big, big topic. So. Yeah.

The reason I am telling you in a very systematic piece would be the systematic way you do it,

in the form of, you know, Russian scientists to compare distribution.

Sure. Probably the value is not significant. And then you take into.

Okay. By the way, we do not consider anything. If it is a 30% more than 30% missing, we don't consider those data.

So we take only. So this is the first filtering anyway. But within 30% regime there might be something.

And then you follow this kind of strategy. Okay.

Does it make sense? It is more data driven, not a domain driven.

Okay. So this is the discussion I mean it.

What do you think? You can. How can you overcome? I think the answer is me.

We can overcome ways. Depends on what you want to do. If it maybe mean is correct, one beta is correct.

One if you go systematically. Yes. Happy to accept any justification as long as you justify why done.

What is the motivation that you just. Okay.

Um, how do you summarize the basic. I'll be sorry.

I mean, we are more range than any region variants of each of the below. How do you do that?

Yeah. So there are already functions. Okay, there are already functions.

So for example, I think I have shown last I mean um, if you type mean it will do it for, you know, and these are basically statistics right.

And it doesn't matter. Any data is given. I think this is the first thing you should do just to trying to get a sense and of the um.

He's not each of the fellows using something.

Okay, so can you try to draw something? Does it work? So if I do East.

Okay. East, and I'm trying to fix the engine.

Let's see if it is working or not. What I've done here is the eat from did I have, you know lazy eyes glaze one.

So it looks like it looks like by default in the heat function, it can handle missing value.

Probably didn't take into account the samples got a missing value.

Only those samples has a value they put together.

It's polished overall. You use it right in your other courses, right?

But you, you know, you okay? Probably useful.

I mean, if you are dealing with the data some point, I mean, you know, uh, but for example,

people like me who work with the people who does experiment, what they do, they do experiment, they generate data.

They have to analyze your sampling, not as big as the data, but they have to.

So it looks like, well, what is your comment on this part of it looks like so have you.

Is it like all those in first column when you like, what do you think goes on for now?

Yeah, yeah yeah I think so I think so. So we can, we can, we can go deep, deep into that.

Okay. So, um. We can.

What we can do, actually. Um. So. Ozone. Okay. Okay.

No, you're not here. So what I am doing here, I have created ozone and I have stored the value.

Okay. Okay, so I have I have created my new object called the ozone.

And then I have. So if I do know east of ozone.

Okay. And then what will do it? It will change the name, you see. Yeah.

That's fine. Okay. And then you can create for all all of them accordingly.

So looks like the hist function can handle actually the missing values here.

What it does it remove. Removing removing roads is okay, but you need to consider how many sample dummy persons you are considering.

If it is a 20 or removing maybe maybe 8 or 9, you are losing your your sample size.

If it is 200, 200 and then you are removing and if you will, if I see that, fine.

And then so it is always the balance depends on how well you data.

Okay. Okay.

All right. So we'll go to the next. This one. What is that.

Yeah. Yeah. And then plot the bivariate relationship each other using the plot function.

I think you have done it earlier. Find the correlation. We each column.

Okay. So in that case if I use if you use core function and you can check if it is really working or not working.

Okay, if it is not working, then then actually we are going to that direction.

How we can. Uh, impute those values and other things in that case.

And it would be checked if it is used for function. Is it working or not working?

So. Yeah.

Yeah. Okay. So he's working with this, but then he goes goes over who has a handicap, you know taking on.

And most often it gives an A+.

And then you get a matrix that there are a little bit in the matrix in it.

Yeah, that type of thing. Can we just like.

Yeah. You can just ask for function for the. Okay.

And then you would see what is happening there. Yeah.

Okay. Yeah yeah yeah yeah. So, uh. Okay.

But I mean, you can, you can do this exercise at home because I just wanted to recap what we've done here last time and move a little bit faster.

Okay. Okay, good. So please do in your in your.

I mean because that I think next class is happening in in one month's time.

Yeah, because I'm coming. Um, but I mean, um, so.

So my mates. No, not others think so, because in between there is a tendency to forget.

So what I'm going to do and 100% I mean, this is I mean, if you say no, I don't believe in that.

So what I'm going to do, I mean, I mean, that's why I'm moving a little bit so that I can give you some tasks.

Okay. Okay. So that you can practice it. And then I will ask randomly one person and then they will come and explain to the.

Uh. Okay, so what I what I want you to do now.

Can you install first?

This particular package. Summary tools.

Okay. I want you to install this particular because I wanted to show you something.

You do not need all of them at the moment. Please install only this particular package because I am going to do.

Some operations. I am going to borrow some function. Using this particular day.

So I want you to install this package in Iran.

See. More people.

So how do we. How do you tell? You. There are many ways you can install.

You can use install dot packages. I just use x, y, z could be anything.

But I guess the last thing people think the x x doesn't call them an example.

Okay, so if you please explain something here or you click in your install and then just for now,

just just install this particular package, I just want to show you something that.

If we. Yeah.

Carry on. Okay. For.

Not. One.

Okay. Everybody here. You just. All right? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, yeah.

So this one, you know. So what are you going to do?

Three. So we are going to do this.

Okay. This is a summary. Coming up.

Okay, so here what we have to do. You have installed the package.

Now I am calling the package. There are two different thing. Installation and calling is not same.

So I'm doing library. Okay.

So I'm saying library summary tools. Installation and calling two different thing.

I want to do some operations. That is why I am using these summer tools.

And then. I am using DF.

I am using df summary dt, meaning that remember the air quality data.

Remember the air quality data we have stored in TX for me TX.

I am passing only one function here. DF.

Summary. And only one command it will give me.

All basic statistics in a single command. You don't have to do each column.

So it is a loop. Okay. In Python in your Java or C plus plus you have run a lot of looping right?

Here. Actually, he's even deeper in the bank. All of them with a graphics.

Okay so I because I think my. Yep.

And of course, you have to be huge. I get it.

I was. As well as looking like a.

So how do you want to paint?

We got to. I, you know.

You know, and then like, you know. Of.

We have been here for a month because we.

Even though it was a super long. Just like you seen from my audience.

And point by point. You will see.

What offended you? Like most people. You guys love them?

Yeah, yeah, it's like a company. Who you. So some of your ideas about.

Ahead of its time. Hold you.

Hope you. Don't have a worry at this point.

I have to tell which one of you just put the error message salt on.

I think you didn't even have to install it once. What?

How do you spell that? I do you. What is your name?

I was, um, already familiar with my.

Well, I think so.

25 1821 so how do you know that?

So guys, those who are married, they they're facing some problem because you are facing second.

Right. You did want to find out.

Why did you say you don't. Want anybody having.

Speaking from. So for the Mac, I don't have a dependency because I do realize that the system has a lot of pain,

but I really don't like to be working, for example, when it works for me.

But yeah, yeah, we'll make it work on that.

Yeah. So just wait. I mean, I was in the energy intensive, you know that.

That's helpful. Yeah, that is what I long for.

Yeah. Option. All right. Do you always want to do this?

No. I mean, this is crazy. I mean, I have no idea how it works now.

It works now. So I think that's what I had to explore for.

Yeah. So. Yeah. So. Oh, yeah.

Yeah. So then. Okay, I don't know about. And now we're running out of room.

Okay. So no. So for her work, this is the conclusion of what he's done.

All right. Yeah. How do you get home? Uh, do you have a mac?

I had to install cords, and it shows you the error message.

And then once you install it, you get another area where it tells you it's a set option where you have to use X11 as far.

But once you put that in the console, it works. Yeah.

How are you telling? Um. Is it possible that maybe you have an internal message?

Yes, I do. Okay, and what if you want to have a human WhatsApp group or something?

Other than can you please message them to them? So. Yeah.

So I'm using windows machine. Yeah. So anyway, I encounter this problem.

Okay. So I think there's an extra an extra bit about, um, what this particular package has done for you.

It works. Right? Oh, okay. Great. Thank you. I mean, if you get it, someone can talk to the group.

That'd be really great. Yeah. Okay. Yeah.

Okay. So what? All I'm trying to say. The differences between you have learned in classical Java or whatever in subject oriented programming.

I mean, the pejorative. Right? So you need to write in X plus.

Plus I is equal to one. And then iterate over the each of the columns it is doing for you all automatically.

You just need to know which packages, what are the things. And it doesn't matter if it is a 100 columns, it will do for 100 columns.

Okay. And if there's a way, we can see the other.

We can see and say before and from, okay,

I'm trying to do the one making the how you can write reporting like an automated version of documentation using should be this kind of thing.

Okay. So so you do the analyses. You get a report and it will do it for you all on end.

But like I like and I buy the notebook kind of stuff more reproducible.

Yeah. So so that. And you can ask me. Okay.

How do I know? Okay. I'm using those those packages. That's why I know that I mean for you guys it's a very steep learning curve.

Right. If you're learning which one is working. But these summary, um, tools can do many other stuffs as well, like a visualization, any other thing.

So if you want to know more you can please exploring. But if someone is giving you data, this is the thing you can do in a minute.

That's it. You. The descriptive statistics. Okay.

Up. Uh. Thank you. I Google your name.

My love, my life. Okay. Thank you very much. I mean, I think you might have received NFC if you follow those we're using Mac.

I think you can resolve to people definitely social media. So so great.

Um all right so should we move on.

So this is the, uh, thing I wanted to show you. Um.

And then. And then there are other packages you need to install eventually.

Uh, each of the packages has got different function, for example.

These two packages deeply are reshaped. These two packages are enormously helpful.

Enormously helpful for what? For data pre-processing. Not for data modeling, but for data pre-processing.

Data pre-processing is not data model. Okay.

They don't. Like.

Yes, I think it starts with. Interquartile range.

I do like this, um, one.

Yeah, we don't like that. But we we will talk about it if you do a box with it.

Yeah. First one of the second quantile internal differences. Yeah.

Okay. Now we are going to discuss very important topic.

And this will be the basis of what you are going to learn. Okay. So far we have done some basics of scripting a lot of things.

But we are going to do the principles of data. Okay. Now these principles holds true.

It doesn't matter what type of data is coming to you. It doesn't matter.

Really. So this is big general principle. So starting with you are working in a company or some some research organization or whatever.

Some people got okay, this is your job. This is the data, uh, is given to you.

Now we want you to know the knowledge from the data. Okay.

What do you mean by knowledge? Meaning? The decision making capability.

Data should tell you something. The company should take a decision. Go.

No go. Or policy? No policy on how to blend you data driven knowledge into the different, um, uh, different strategic decisions.

Yeah. Okay. Now, my first question if someone is working, did you get a lot of your.

We. In the. You know if someone is going to give you the real money would be wonderful.

I awesome. You have any friends today? And what is the.

What will you tell? Me?

Will you? Please.

Open. Okay. Let me let you go.

I. Honestly, even what we need to understand.

Right? Yeah. What are we? We can get emergency liquidity.

On what data? What do you mean by. Um is seen but not see columns and also see the columns and rows.

Okay. And then probably I'm ready.

Okay. So, so I think you guys are getting used to kind of me, but I think I have a hard, only one right answer.

The right answer is you should ask question. You should not go any.

You should not do anything. The person who bring the data.

You should then. Okay. Can I have a meeting next week? I would like to go through one of the things you are interested in.

So don't touch data. If you wish to promise not to.

This is your first. Doing nothing. So you give stress the person who is bringing the first.

And do you realize what is going to happen if you are doing all the things you are telling me?

Next thing, here we go. What are you ask this question. In companies, it is very easy.

I mean, we are going to take the reliability. I mean it exactly the right I mean it's your you you take responsibility.

You you you decide what to do. So the best thing would be you be me.

You say, okay, I actually have you don't know anything about that right?

Any questions about the data. Easy for strategy making. Easy for predictability.

Easy for selecting features. Selecting. Measuring.

Easy for identifying the population structure and based on the population structure, you are able to do a marketing promotion.

Yeah. So first step of the data analysis. Starting and refining the question.

This should be. And this is okay. By the way, if you eat this video, this is from Roger Payne from Johns Hopkins, United States.

Okay. These are the art of data science, a guide for anyone who works with data.

It's a kind of a very layman way of telling. This guy has been.

He's a biostatistician, um, professor Roger Japan.

And there's other valuable things. I think we're going to be a free PDF.

So he's arguing. Your first step would be you. You discuss a lot.

I mean, what is the main critical? Because many of the things you don't know, I mean, okay, the first thing second, exploring.

What do you mean by excluding exploring mean what already happened.

Meaning you want to see the distribution you wanted to see. You think that you want to see, um, what do you want to ask?

Why this is missing? Yeah. Is it is it different ways it's coming from I mean, I mean, and so you wanted to get a proper understanding of the data.

Okay. And then if your quality, quality control, QC control is allowing you to do that.

Step number three, then you go for step number three. Step number three is building formal statistical machine learning I.

I'm seeing statistical model, but I can replace all in statistics machine learning in.

Some people bringing deep learning, CNN and artificial CNN gone.

Genetic diversity modeling. My first question for them show me the data quality.

Okay. So these are the three. So this is very sophisticated I think.

Yeah. So we spend some time here we people that actually we have practical work in the lecture.

Okay then for interpreting the results, how you're going to interpret.

I mean, interpretation is a big deal, right? I mean, I mean, for example, uh, you get the positive coefficients.

Do you? How do you interpret in this one. And the final thing is that communicating your results, you need to know your audience.

I mean, if you are for minorities background and you want to talk in a model, model, model,

you lost your audience, then we just need to see what you got from the data, how they can implement it at all.

Those measurements can be um.

And inputting into the into the, uh, in the mining point of view, into the financial point of view, into the into the domain expert.

So you also need to learn how to communicate. Okay.

And usually I can move my mikes. Sometimes people come to me with the data and they have a very specific model, specific thing in their mind.

They asked me to do this one particular, and then I ask why they see.

They think this is the best one. I didn't know, know not the best. You have something.

So this is happened when people doesn't know. They have assumptions, you know.

So they have a three simple they want to do deep learning okay.

I mean you cannot even do anything since people they. So these are the things.

So you need to be. So you guys are learning it. So you guys need to be.

Taking responsibility and authority. I mean, you're not. You're not God.

I mean, people think, oh, you they can do anything with the data. No, I cannot bring anything on the data.

Okay. Question. Any question? No.

Okay. So let's talk a little bit more. I think I have I have explained a lot about the starting and refining.

The question is so important. And I'm giving you this. So this paper came out in science.

Again, it would have been heavily. They look at article.

What is the question? And they say this is look like a 2015.

Is a week to ten years old. But still I teach this particular example a lot of different posts because it is so important.

And this is science. Science. But you know, what is the impact of science, right?

Science nature articles.

I mean, if you don't know, you see, I mean, if you could do science, maybe you have done your I mean, probably next you get a promotion.

Getting it. Yeah. So nature nature is around 100 intersect or something.

So there I mean or recommending that you initiate question what you're asking.

It will. Give you a lot of impact. Further downstream analysis.

So if you are wrong in asking questions, you everything goes wrong.

Your time, your resources, whatever you talk about, everything will be equal.

So it is quite important that you should think about what are the type of questions you are asking?

Yeah, it's a one and one page article.

So it was it is quite good. All right. So um, then comes exploring data.

Yeah. And uh, and then in exploring data is maybe I think, I think I have a lot on this.

Okay. So exploring data as I see it is mostly talking about descriptive going so descriptive

on what it can mean within most navigation variance purposes and all the things that,

you know, I mean, we've been discussing last few days. So actually we are trying to understand what already happened.

Okay. Backward looking. Yes. But summarizing what it means when you're trying to find a logical argument and, um, that's.

Okay. Then I think at the previous like now.

So this is the first wave of analysis, descriptive analyses. Predictable.

That's unbelievable. What what do you mean if you can analyze it. Something to do with the prediction.

Like if you do a market like you put the money in the market, want to know what is happening towards anybody?

If you predict then you will be the gainer or if you can predict two months from now.

Two months from now. Yeah. So so that is about predictive analytics.

Prescriptive analytics meaning that you change one parameter.

Okay, page one parameter. And then you want it to see how it is affecting.

Very. Okay. So for example, uh, was earlier.

Have you heard about causality? Have you? Have you heard a proposal?

So it be okay. I'll give you one example. What do you mean by causality?

Was already means because of something. Because of.

In the system, something is happening and then it is causing some changes.

So for example, I'll give you one example. Let's say this is one e you have measure and this is B another measurement.

Two measurements are taken. Okay. Now if it is an association which we do using the correlation type of analysis.

We use the binding on the keys, we do a lot, right. So this is just an association.

So it all ties huh? A to B if it is in here B here how it we might kind of associate it and that's what we will however.

If it is a causal ace or g b, it should be e causing b.

There should be a directionality equal to. Yeah.

No, no, it is important, I think of it to be these not affecting.

It is affecting be. That's the cause. So if A is not in the system, we will be all right.

So he's causing be. This is called Kosovo.

Puzzle. And then there is something called cause of I was an artificial intelligence, meaning that they kind of it.

They can identify the structure. So if you measure anything, it will be easy to see your we don't know the structure.

Ultimately they learn the structure of their system. So in the stock market, the system dynamics plays a major role as well.

System dynamics to it. So. So for example in London stock market versus in New York versus zone.

Right. Yeah. Yeah. So what happens one is go down.

Another is affecting as well. So all in effect. So the question is and is causing.

So if you consider many of the system around E okay is a cluster and B maybe associated with someone as well.

Okay. We can understand the system dynamics how it is affecting the wheat as well.

And we call this a Markov model. It's a matter of vision, right?

I mean, for example, suddenly something happened. What happened in 2007? So there is economic crash.

So one, it goes down and then it affected all the things. So these these parted ways in front of it somehow in the system.

So and then we do the system benefit. Okay.

So here is a very deep. Honey rescue if you want to leave.

Okay, I know I love students autonomous analytics.

What does it mean? Real-Time prediction. Google.com.

What is it? Google.com. Going. Car is going.

So let's say the forest green lost 30 years of data. 58.

But then. Then something else is going on in the Google Card.

Each time one card is moving, it is getting feedback from the environment.

Zebra crossing environment. Green heat. So.

Very deep web of analytics predictability.

Okay. In healthcare domain, we use it to monitor real time prediction of the patient's.

Each time, like you said. Okay.

Yeah. So you need to recognize there are different types of pottery.

Yeah. I mean, the moment, you know, there is a different category, you can place yourself accordingly, right.

So you can ask them, is it there, is it a um and the prediction model.

Then if it is a prediction model, increase the values here. If it is also analyzes association.

Uh, more than that, then maybe this here. Okay.

Questions. No. All right. Okay, so I have discussed about those a little bit on on this side.

Okay. Now data wrangling. Okay, now they are different from one.

So again, we are talking about, uh, not being single like these.

We we're still in the descriptive. I don't like it. And there is something called data wrangling.

Some people call it data pre-processing. These are kind of it um, or data cleaning.

I think some people have, say, data cleaning. Um, many different name.

Um, and uh, we actually, uh, boiled down to the similar thing, um, how the data look like.

Yeah. Okay, so some examples of wrangling like merging multiple data sources into a single data for analysis.

Let's say someone you have um, you want to make your own analyses.

Uh, um, so you are merging multiple studies.

Yeah. That's possible. So you are. Um. Um. Gathering information, but merging.

Okay, so it is it is not really any predictive analytics.

It is just a wrangling and kind of a data preparation type of thing.

Okay. So that could be data wrangling as well okay. Identify gaps in the data.

Empty cells I think we have talked about it. Empty cells versus the missing and all the thing again it is it is a part of the data wrangling okay.

Deleting data if either necessary identify extreme outliers in the data.

So we haven't talked that much about it. But I'm going to talk about later little bit later as well okay.

So data wrangling is a part of data preparation where you understand more and more it is a it is a it

is a multiple different thing composition between um pre-processing and and the data preparation okay.

All right. Uh, okay. There is a there is online.

If you look into Harvard Business School. I will be just called in.

And, uh, there is a there are some materials. Um, so this course run from the business school in Harvard.

They have a data science under a different one. So sometimes they have a different course.

So if you look into that, I think I think that is okay. That one data range.

So please if possible there is a blog. Okay on the decorating.

You might want to go to that. Yeah. Okay, so I have taken some few points from this particular blog and what they say.

They say there are six type of lettering. Okay.

The first one is, uh, discovery.

Okay, Emily, yourself, I think we have discussed already the VAT feminization fraction transform ordinary use growth rate data.

So will we talk a little bit more on that?

What you don't want me to read on is that nobody has done anything data coming to you, but then it may not be usable.

And then you have done some processing on the data. So you have done some structuring cleaning.

And you may find publications like these are the right, uh, very similar but part of data ready.

So these are the points. If you go to the um, kind of um, this link, you will find more information there.

Okay. Okay, so data can be missing.

Why? I mean I mean we have been discussing now identity record and exclude.

First identify how many. Okay then one.

So we can put equal record meaning that information. The parts that would be excluded.

Don't consider, I think, many people saying, right, you excluded from this one. That's one.

Okay. So, um, how how, you know, if there are any missing values in the data.

So there is a comma is not in it. So here I mean, that's an example.

Okay. And then when you mess up with the dumpling.

So, uh, I created something of the beauty. And then.

And then he's got energy. So he's a symbol. Okay.

And you determine he's got energy so he can return.

Yeah. True or false? He's. So, you know that. Is that any any any missing person.

Okay. And then you apply some function. Need total.

How many. Okay. And then you then you can find a then any the point meaning you want to omit this

PT if you apply on the entire rows will be deleted and their rows will be deleted,

meaning it will not take into account any of the rules which contain.

So very simple. Just just you can you all give in. And then what I trying to do and frankly impute and foresee.

But look at it in an axis in the position. No.

The third part could come in the position and then use something here.

And we see that. And then for each I want each, you know, something some examples.

You know, I mean one I can extreme but yeah. Okay, we'll do exit.

Don't worry. We'll do a little more on that. It's just a theoretical background and on.

Okay. Data normalization.

What do you mean by normalization? So.

So meaning that not all measurements has been done in a single place.

Maybe not all measurements is done. So we just.

What is the problem? I give you an example. So you are standing in a in a train station.

Where from one one gay city and that from seven into you can pretty much help me.

So it's not being a good idea. Normalization make everything in the same platform.

Normalization makes all the measurements in the same platform.

Because many measurements may not be matching. Okay.

And one of the ways of doing using the Z school.

What is that for? You subtract mean from each of the measurement.

Divide by. Standard deviation. There are many others.

There are many others that would be range normalization, z normalization, min max normalization.

There are many different way you can do it. But okay for now. See that.

Now you can write x x I x.

I could be any measurement of the mean mu for me of this particular column you'd like the standard deviation of x.

Okay. In. Are you just like ski?

That's it. You don't really. Automatically the scale function.

We'll go to the geometric. Everything we see.

Again. Think about the week. The formal.

Speaking languages done. You guys have done object oriented programming.

Because they actually do not. So all the pilots will be automatically.

Normalize for you and then it will return. Normalized version of your metrics.

Yeah, it would be to normalize version of the matrix and that matrix.

You need to use for your prediction model. Why? Because many of the because if you are not making comparable in your measurements.

Think about regression. So in regression what is happening in regression one is equal to beta naught plus beta one plus epsilon.

If it is a multiple linear regression we don't want it to you estimate the coefficient.

If there are two different measurement you beta one beta two will not be compatible.

I'll be very high. One will be maybe high. But you don't know. Is it?

How? How big, how easy. And you don't know. Yeah.

So that's why people use normal expression. Are you guys following what I'm saying so far?

Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So we take a break five minutes and we come back.

Okay, great. We can. Yeah.

This is incredible. So he's always helped me out, so I.

Well, maybe. Okay.

I'm. You know how long will.

No, I don't feel. You're actually part about that.

Yeah. What you want to. Beginning in 20 them.

Yes. Yes you are.

Going to escape with this.

I one. For now.

Obviously, that's what they need.

It is not going to work.

I guess. Oh.

Are you going to change that mission statement? Right? I think so.

I mean, you know, I want to get off the plane.

You know, if I was coming in. It's on the bottom.

I think it's more often.

Oh, yeah. I don't know if I can do one.

More on that. Um.

And then. I'll let you think.

What do you say? I'm sorry. I used to work in. We.

Are moving. If you want to go into the health.

Care plan with them in 5.94.

Think one of these. Um. Okay. Thank you.

I guess my what I'm gonna be like from. The government, I just.

I mean, you know who? Yeah. Human like. Yeah. Yeah.

What about the fact that I. Was looking for life like that as well?

Yeah, I got the bad news first.

Then why are you asking? Oh, you know, I want to have you done what you want.

I'm a part of it. Yeah. Uh. So.

You. You know, um.

We would. Alphapencil1 like, you know, he's like mom, which is very.

This is most of the time.

How? Why are you telling us? Holy cow!

I like the idea. Of.

What you do. How did you get on with working with Cisco?

You are talking about how. And then be able to.

I'm not. Do you think you can change?

You know, some kind of charging slot? Um, I have to go there, you know?

Um, you know, I like. You know what I mean?

Like, fun, like, um, so, like, you go out here and even us, um, that's, uh.

Me be. Oh, yeah, I know.

So here are some of the rooms they've got. They do? Yeah, but I think the same problem.

Yeah. So once you open things, it's somewhat easier for you.

Um, if you do have the book from the actual living room.

Yeah. Did you see that last night? I don't know if I've got know of.

Thank you. Yeah, you should have. You. Well.

Thank you. Although she did not.

One of the only. Think people are going to spend.

So what are the parallel courses on the blockchain. And we have blockchain on our options.

Okay. We've got private equity replenishment and visualization.

And lastly, what is the Python name? Yes, we have Python.

Um, and we have portfolio theory investment management. Okay.

Um, you have corporate Python. Okay. So have you guys already know this stuff's.

What do you think? I suppose piping roses. Yeah.

Yeah. We didn't object where we have to do, like, go through these. And how do we do what we we did?

Like I'm learning. I don't think we. Yeah.

Something pretty. Simple.

Uh, yeah. That works. That's not that.

I mean, you know. Yeah, yeah. You know, you know, when people are going to school, you have a recipe.

So the first batch. Yeah, it was one of those.

She. She got a fellowship from United States.

The. Thank you from the team from University of California.

She went to California. The reason I go because I didn't even want to make it work.

Oh, yes. So keep your horses.

One minute and another over there. And she got a penalty.

Nobody said anything. You don't think so?

You didn't even know. I think she's doing in California.

And then other people have got some jobs here. Um. In the companies.

Uh, I think in London you will be. So you never know which direction to take.

Sometimes people come from very different backgrounds. Some people even maybe the never done these things accountant.

Maybe you'll need something. Finance, maybe marketing, maybe these things.

But in the end, other people, the finance.

You can write if you see the papers, you know, traditional.

I mean, I don't think that in life, like any other, there any traditional way of learning the way it is,

it will be more and more linking from multiple different domains.

And so that's why you see there is quite a lot of people are shifting.

Okay. We move on. Okay. So um, so we're discussing about normalization.

So don't think this is the only way to normalize. Okay, so this is that money?

Yeah. Um, and then there are different ways of normalizing the data.

And question is many of them are subjective. Many many of them depends on.

The data you have. Yeah. And and quality of the data making depends on.

Okay. Okay, now, I told you that.

I mean, I mean, few of the packages are quite interesting. And then we I mean, I don't know if they found me to work for me.

Probably. I cannot go through everything, but I can. I can tell you when you go through it yourself, I mean, this course need a video.

And then I think how many hours I can remember it. Self-Study. Yeah.

And then and then you have to really go to if you really want to take advantage of this course,

for example, deep and wide these days, this particular package is like a well.

Okay. Who would you risk with? What?

Okay. So you will see many of the things and the skills in this particular package.

You, but you don't see them, for example. You sissy. But you can give me an idea.

You'll see. Like a select feature. Come on.

You'll be doing in the backside some sort of an expert commanding out.

Okay. Anyway, we need you to summarize. So this particular package, I mean, there is an extensive documentation.

Extensive. Yeah. Because sometimes we don't want to select all the rows, all the columns.

We want to specifically use some of them.

Okay. Sometimes we want to add something something we want it to remove something.

And that can be done very programmatically. Wait. So okay so for example this one.

Okay. So I'm clicking this. Uh, so this is an excellent tutorial on on this particular topic.

Yeah. So introduced to dplyr for faster data manipulation in R.

Okay. So I mean very nicely they have mentioned.

So this is. Um, I mean, I see the.

Okay. So. Library.

Each flight. So meaning that how many flights. So this is in inbuilt package right.

So you can access the data sets there. Um so look ahead.

You can see how many years need man. So this is quite nice I mean you can see all of them.

Um there is something called tbl df and you click okay and then you can print.

It's like a data structure around okay. Uh, so deploy our everything will access by making an internal object called tbl tbl df.

Okay. And then you can access all of them. Um, filter db rows matching criteria.

So there are many many for example, and operation um filtering operations and many, many other operations you can do.

So this is all about data wrangling. Yeah.

So selecting cutting edge from things you know so I keep I'm telling you you guys mean practice in because there will be a time can get.

So if you practice that will be really great. You can just practice executes. Okay.

And I'm going to give you data anyway. So you can you can apply those things once you learn it.

Okay. So this is I thought I can just show you um, the website I mean, I mean cleaning and pipelining here.

Uh, you can make your own pipeline, rearrange order. So many, many different operations.

You can you can make and and the thing is, you will not feel it if it is a small data,

but if it is a big data, big data, many, many 1 million persons, okay, 20,000 little big data.

So then you can see, as I said in the background it is SQL okay.

All the things are written as an equal format. You just access those functions.

Mm. Okay. Great. So.

And this is really you have to go through quite in detail. So that's why I'm telling it.

Okay. Now let's go through a little bit of the of the visual stuff.

So, so far I have talked about basic principles of data analysis.

I have talked about revision of what we have done. Now we are trying to come back to the visual stuff as well.

Yeah. And it actually we talked about the communication.

Remember how to communicate in visual team will be very, very key to communicate with other different domains.

They will not understand your judgments, but they will see the figures.

And that's how I can. Yeah. So three types of graphs.

Univariate. Bivariate and multivariate.

And we touched upon some of the graphical theme in the last okay.

But in more detail you needed. You can use the categorical.

If it is a categorical data you can think about your treatment if it is a quantitative data okay.

If you think bivariate five for two reasons two relationship can happen with a categorical versus categorical data versus quantitative.

Quantitative versus quantitative. So you decide what it will be that you go to, for example.

Um. Default credit card default versus uh, for, uh, uh, getting.

Default or not. Default versus gender.

Male or female. So. Male. Female. Categorical. Default.

Non default. It is also categorical. So categorical versus kind of legal.

You might want to refer to the stakeholder group budget segment in question.

Okay. Quantity versus, uh, quantity like what we have done.

So instead of the remember last. Last. Nothing yet.

Entropy versus quantity but the violin parts or maybe some kind of in other kind of a distribution.

Yeah. Multivariate group grouping faceting heatmap scatterplot matrix.

Um you know heatmap scatter plot matrix.

Maybe. Maybe not that much faceting. Uh, I'll discuss it in moment grouping.

Maybe we talked about grouping right. Clustered them binning them and grouping them.

And then you project. Okay. So.

So once you identify what you wanted to do. Then it is easy to make yourself.

You can you can look around the solution. So first thing is you need to know what you want to do.

Yeah. Okay.

Grammar of graphics. So. Download graphics ggplot.

Initial version was one then. They say version two.

Okay. It's done by Henry Whitman. Uh, this is from New Zealand.

And then you kind of say, he's the first one. Actually.

He goes, grandma, he's saying, okay, we can make any visualization if you follow some company.

Okay. And what do you mean? He said.

We need three things to make any. Number one.

We need data. We need six.

And when you do it. And that's it. We need three things.

If we can identify two things, we can draw energy. Okay.

So data data is a data frame for example.

Yeah. Why data frame. It also can be methods. But then data frame is computation between you categorical versus um uh quantitative relationship.

So let's say data can be nothing. So it is used in division x and y variable.

It can also be used as a control of the color size, shape and other things.

Okay. So S&P will control color size. So remember.

And then in the last thing how you want to go. Is it got or is it the density rather.

Three different thing. So he saying if we don't see things.

We can make a proper visualization. We can end.

Okay. We can add for herpes in the visualization. Using these three principles.

Okay. There is a big book on that.

And this this package is really, really useful. Okay. Now we will do some, some exercise of course here.

So in this particular example this is called data in ice.

I see that if you use media types I mean this is the ice is a positive plant species.

So the measure measured um the different quality of the of the size quality, the stem quality and everybody in the world,

because this data is so nice that they can compare these data and try to generate some results.

Yeah. So data if you take if you like data is like you have done um, for equality.

This data is coming also um by default.

Okay. So when we are coming by you okay.

So you can access data ice like this, then you can see the first six columns, uh, fixed six rows.

Then did you plot the this is the function height. So data is the ice okay S1 s2 is x axis.

You want to represent something sepal length okay.

Y axis. Potomac length. So meaning acceleration ray. And then you want to project is a point that seems to me.

Okay. So that is actually it's a very, very simple way of representation.

Very simple. Okay, so if I do it.

What is it? Oh, yeah. Okay. Control.

So I have. Okay.

No I'm not. All right, so if you wanted to check these.

Yeah. So I printed first six rows and you can see the measurement.

They measure different length width length butter length and species what type of species they are.

Okay. And then if I just copy this particular one.

Okay. So but before that what I have to do I have to put library.

Ggplot two. I think you have already installed from the last class here.

So here you can see if I type it here. You see.

So it is coming like a. Yeah.

So this is a relationship between length and.

The sepal length and petal length and this is a scatter plot.

Okay. And if you can follow the principles this is a bivariate.

Both of them are quantitative right. So connect those three as well.

Yeah. Okay.

So the basic principle. Remember the principles. Principle is first one is the data frame.

And we can check if it itself is a data frame okay. Is dot data dot frame I read.

Okay. Through. If it is not true, you cannot get visualization.

Do we throw you a kind of a an error message?

It is not related data. Okay. Yeah.

Okay. No, it is very simple, right? Very simple. Like you have made a relationship between X and Y.

You just made a relationship between X and Y, which is very simple way of doing it.

Same function. Which function can do the same thing? Blah blah.

Well same thing. So these people have not done a good job in my opinion.

By using plot function, I could I could get the same thing.

But here is the point. Point is.

I want you to now do all these things and show me how it looks.

I want you to change each of the light and dark.

The visualizes what you are getting. So the first one I have done.

Second one, what I am telling you. Oh, kind of you.

Kind of based on the species. Okay, so already information about the species.

There are four species. Yeah.

How do I know? Because I used it. Yeah, but then you can, you can, you can check.

You can check species yourself. Okay.

Can you please finish up this? And you said one of the different things you are getting.

So you will check in and you find each day you are actually you are not you are not touching these guy dataframe.

You are changing yesterdays. Either you are changing aesthetics or you are changing the geometry.

That's all. I think.

I think these lies also in the, in your in your canvas. Yeah.

So I want you to copy the line and paste it in changing. In a week for I think in week four, if you can look into that one that you would find it.

In initial point you would think, oh, this is very easy. I mean, this is of course easy.

I'm saying that comparison to what function plot function is like, and, uh, there is nothing, governor.

Everything yet you heard some idea. You don't have anything you can't record.

It's all your argument. Okay? So if you know what people do, if you want, you can do.

I'm. I love the direction we have taken.

Yeah. I don't think. Just thinking.

And some of you. More. Thank you for.

Welcome to the homes of. Where were we?

I think. I think we just need to. You?

Probably right? Yeah. On it.

You gotta ask what? What's going on? I'm definitely not looking back.

What are the differences you're meeting? We're noticing the difference between an MBA in medicine.

Yeah. So. I think I may be positive, but I'm confident.

It's one thing. Science fiction.

Oh, yeah? Yeah. Different places. Yeah. Yes.

Yes. Yes. So. See here how flexible you could be.

You are getting close to the each size. You are taking the different types of from you know each of the balls.

I'm going to take you to a 19. Yeah.

Okay. Thank you. Electricity. Love. Saving energy.

Okay. You can say this later. Um, yeah.

So you can remove the economic report. You mean something that was amended in the background?

That's sci fi. Do you like? Yeah. In 20.

I would like them to think that.

I mean, these things.

If you want to do like what it is like in maybe an industry continues to consume and you could change, you know the question, right?

So you can compete at competitors and then you think so this is yeah.

So estimates from the business analysts.

And we think yeah. Yeah I want you to sense that.

Yeah. You can I think you can always reach us you know.

So so that's why it's on the blog. And you can see what you know I hear you know, some people I mean.

So. Yeah. Was easy to speak to your commission.

Mother. She. Told me.

How then do you think? Like how many pieces? And then you can decide on and on.

On the colors. Okay. Okay.

Thank you for saying that. Thank you for being so.

And then you've managed. Within the parliament, everyone sees a message verging on ugliness, and that's okay.

I think I was that I was on that first name that were me.

I'm asking the last one in the book that's coming up.

You know it's not going to operate.

In my view, not even close. You for that?

Yeah. Situation would never play out. See I was going to do something I was I mean, I don't really know.

I find it easy for you to go find an article once you don't have time.

For. What is this? 100 and?

You want? We're just gonna take you.

A little bit. You know, in other words, how you wanna think?

We want to just cover. Yeah, but, you know, this could have been something else.

He's on one side, you know.

I'll be using zoom for these kind of. I say, uh, how do you.

Know that this is my chair? I mean, I actually like a lot of.

Things. To be honest about.

Yeah. So have you seen what you observe?

It's just sad to see that all the same people, despite having things that we can change very drastically.

Low. And these are the population quality figures. Yeah, but maybe you can make the quality figures.

What does Alpha Alpha Alpha is doing. Alpha improving the guide.

Transparency change the alpha will. I think I'll find pudding 0.4 or something.

Here. Even when doing nothing lost. Yeah. Oh.

Uh uh. Yeah. Uh, maybe.

Maybe later. But we didn't. Yeah. Okay. That's fine.

That's fine. Um. Do nothing more then.

You know, I think I. You don't know means.

Only those 100 and thousand. 128 people in the crowd do that.

People do not do that. And we do that.

On that note, we. Have options.

The company. On the.

If you have a. On the floor.

There's lots and lots of people. It can be like fishing. Find out how.

You don't see me. I see you. I. Do not like you.

She was with me. I knew I was in a lot of money there for them.

It kind of makes them feel like you can't even afford someone.

You. You might as well.

You know how. I feel connected when you have a member of Congress who thinks the job is going to.

Be okay. If it's not what it is, and if it is more important than all of them.

So what do we do with this? Yeah, you do it.

I was one one. Um. 100.

If you don't like. Maybe this.

Is what? We just have.

Yeah. You know, I feel so guilty on this one.

Let's see what we know.

No. What did you know?

There was no. Yeah, as much as I just.

How? And those kinds of things I think are the.

Something funny. What do you mean?

Well, you probably don't look like. You know how much of.

You wonder. Where have you seen?

I never thought. What is this issue?

I feel. Just search for her.

Oh. That's simple. You know, you can only do 100.

It's an insult. I think I'm.

You know, when you walk into. So that's what I mean.

I don't know what is wrong with you. Um.

If you want to consider something else. We.

Also want. I probably don't have.

Any room here. Yeah.

We are all on the same. They.

That's the power of this one. You can use that.

Yeah. You know, some of. This is quite easy.

So you want to understand the background. Of the time.

I hope you know that you not to. Things like that, which is not.

Pretty. That's a lot to do that I think we have to deal with.

But I do not know. Yeah.

So, you know, you got to turn it all on.

I really do like you, and I, um.

Yeah. No, I'm the one who sells it, so it's like.

Yes. Yeah. Integrity. Yeah.

Looks a lot like a young black person whose which is always behind the coffee.

Over the second we have to each. And so I'm assuming that she's like um, even know they claim they overcame some things that I.

So that's one of the. This is cool.

This is probably not. Anything that I do not love.

Thanks everyone so much. So it may not.

Be possible to use all the policies in India anymore.

You can see that in my notes.

You. Can see from the data that if you have you already have an interview.

Right. Yeah. That's about. All of this and that's how you want to.

Climate change. You mean that you don't want to see your.

I may not. Understand.

What? I'm here for you, but nothing.

What else? Well. Up in.

Does it say that you didn't have a problem? I think it's a good day to watch.

Uh, yeah. Okay. Lots and lots.

He didn't have. And.

Super Superfund. In some.

You know. Is it?

2021. Five.

Yeah. Basically he is looking for the final, right.

But with something like this getting behind one of the most important things yet.

Oh, okay. Um, have you released some of them?

If not all? Yeah. Okay. So what is your observation?

What is your general observation? Excuse me.

Gigi. I'm. Yeah yeah yeah yeah.

So, so my intention is to not tell you that. Okay. This is all.

This is the first thing. This is just the starting point. I'm just trying to give you a kind of.

Um, if you're going right, you go this way or that way, and then you explode.

I'm giving you framework. So general framework. So, so irrespective of which background you come from, which background.

And if you can hold on to that, I think you can go far. Um, so my main mission is to say, you know, using the discipline function,

using the discipline function, you can aesthetically make your figures beautiful.

Yeah. Which will be very difficult. Sometimes you have a function which is a beast.

Okay. Now you will realize that this is a very small data.

Okay. But this data has been used many, many times for this type of activities.

The beauty of this data is it is a mix between quantitative and category.

So you can see that species there are four different species, right?

Sometimes you are coloring based on the species, meaning that if you can here you can also color based on the default as well.

Default or no. Default or no. Yeah. So if I ask you okay you make this plot but you show me.

Well, what are the people at default to make a visualization? Yeah, probably you can do it.

Yeah. So that's the ethos. Now, you might have already experienced there are some functions like, uh, alpha beta.

These are, these are very detailed. I mean, there is no way I remember I mean, I don't actually remember two.

The only way to learn the bullet or centipede kind of stuffs. But you know, what is the function is doing.

Alpha is controlling the transparency. If you do a 0.3 you're blurring.

If you do very high it is done.

Sometimes you need it. What do you mean? Because maybe you what you're feeling is very complex.

You want it to be pretty on one side, maybe do something else.

So you never know one. What do you mean? So? So.

And there are many, many other. There is a big book by Hadley.

This much a book thickness. And it's from Springer only on ggplot2.

So I mean I'm and I'm giving one lecture on B and it's interesting.

Yeah. But what I'm saying that this is your platform. You can go and you can, you can export it to be more and more.

Okay, good. And then you have explored probably some new data which is mg.

MG is mileage data, meaning that some curves they have um, and they have put you to the r, uh, different properties of this particular car.

And, and they measured mileage on how many.

Well, the kind of thing and, and and um, and I just wanted to show you there are many different, uh, data set exist in R which you can practice.

Yeah. That will give you kind of a, um, uh, familiarity how we can use some of the scripts.

Okay. Then Boxplots box plots are very important and very useful because sometimes we talk about outlier.

Okay. Remember we talked about outlier and when and how to identify the outlier.

So one of the ways people identify using the box. Okay.

So the boxplot used for outlier detection. Boxplot used for.

Understanding the distribution of the data. Okay. In that case, you can prepare maybe all the.

I think in that case, all the data is actually showing, you know, the box plot type of thing.

So you can see what is happening. Those, uh, those samples are okay.

So we'll continue. So this is a cheat sheet. So again these tips are very useful sometimes because you would not remember many of the things.

So he's thank you Pam. Uh, yeah.

So here you have a data you reported system and you were plotting and similar way of doing it and, and, uh, and there are so.

Some of the basic graphical kind of a representation.

So a is is kind of an object.

And you are putting as it is a data frame. And sometimes data frame is changing and there is no actually by default.

So if there is nothing is there is, it is um, how you want to geometry is missing by default if we take what is coming.

So I think by default it is a dot or something like this. Yeah. So this we have something like segmentation.

So we have not done like for example you can see geo applying it to every line.

You can represent line not the points. Okay. Um.

And there are many others. Maybe incoming incoming lectures.

Sometimes I will pick up some of the functions and also different things. Yeah.

Okay. And any question so far? No.

So we have gone a little bit far in the visual thing. Okay. Now, from now what I'm going to do, I am going to.

Read the file. So this is a new topic. So far.

What is the data? Is already in the arm.

Now, what if I give you a text file in how you're.

Okay. So important in that case. Okay.

So I think first I will show you how to read the file. Okay.

Now there might be. Let us see. There might there might be, uh.

No. Um. Give us.

By week. Yeah.

So I want you to download this particular data dot txt format.

Credit. Underscore card dot x.

Should be within the same sentence even. One.

One. Thank you.

Jennifer. You.

What is. Okay.

Did you? Download it credit underscore dot txt.

Okay. Now question for you where you are going to put this data under the.

So. So. So.

You might have working somewhere in your directory, right? The working directory.

These files need to be in your working directory.

Okay. So in this data this is very basic.

So there are some binary. Client ID.

This is the unique IP. There is a default some some number.

So zero and one. So one is default. Zero is not default.

Some sort of credit card type of data income age and loan.

Income, age and loan. So in conclusion, lone, up, pretty girl, independent women.

The default is the outcome variable, which is considered as a one.

Okay. Yeah. Okay.

So what we're going to do. We need to read the file.

And the command is used. Read the table. Okay, read your table.

And remember this file has run ins. What is running.

Row names means unique. Client ID.

It has got a header. Header means heading. Heading means this part is heading right.

Income. Each loan. Okay.

And it is a tip separated file. So.

How do I know? Because, I mean. I mean, it's a text file. Usually text files are type separated file.

Okay, so have you understood that the file.

Actually, I mean, what I'm trying to say here. So the file, if you open this text file is a XLS or some, some kind of a file open or maybe some even.

See, you could have any column names and you can have it on its.

This is the first thing you need to observe when someone is giving you data. Groanings.

Calumnies. Well, I'm names also called Izzy.

Adam. Meaning heading. Okay.

And I am mentioning for me for this particular exercise I am interested in.

First one. People thought so. I mean, so maybe he's coming from the bank or something.

Some people are not paying. Definitely, you know, proper time.

So they go defaulter. If you miss particular two three times then you can default.

So bank is not going to give you a loan. So that's probably easy. And it depends on how much income.

Maybe you could fired from the job and you know income. So that would be one of the things.

So income matters a lot.

You h I mean if it is you are retired be a lot have money or you are raised in 18 years you don't have money or maybe not even,

you know, get 1820 or something. Okay.

Uh, each loan, if you have a overdraft loan or anything, then probably high probability that,

you know, so so we have to keep that on because and this is the outcome variable.

And we want you to read the file. The file is in a text format okay.

Now the first thing is once you start a new analysis you need to get rid of all the objects you have already.

Used. Okay. I mean, I mean, in this part, I mean, probably you might not want to use today because you have many of the things you have done.

I mean, but in general. So you make sure not any of the objects interfere in your new objects.

How to do that? So if you do remember, remove list is equal to l is equal, meaning that you will one hour to remove all of them.

You can remove. All the predefined, not predefined all the session.

You have created some objects that you wanted to remove it. Okay, so this is the end you cleaned?

Yeah. Okay then data one for me. My, my I have created data.

One is an object I have assigned. Okay I have used the return table credit card, underscore card to txt quote unquote.

Yeah. Quote unquote in the quote unquote. You need to put this one and then separated how it is separated them separated.

It could. Yeah.

And then header is equal to T for true road route names is equal to one meaning that you are asking are you considered road names as it true.

Meaning it has got a row names, meaning it has got some unique ID.

So you want to interpret that Heather is equal to two t for capital D?

Some people write t capital R u e as well. It will work in that case.

Okay. And then I want entire t r should interpret r should interpret as a data frame.

I'm 40. Why? How do I know I'm 40?

Look, is is data free? Is not easy.

Instead of him. I'm telling us, please consider, although this is a metric, but you please consider is a data frame.

Because I never know. Because you remember the default r zero and one. Maybe R is interpreting as it is a categorical variable, I don't know.

So I'm forcing R. Please do interpret as a data frame.

So I will wait here until this. So I want you to execute these and tell me if you if you are able to read your file.

Yes. Okay.

Thank you for reading up for me in a way where he seemed like he was doing okay.

Okay. Um. I want them to be part of the reason that, you know.

You know, one of you know, if you just showed up, I.

Had to it. Well, yeah. What do you want?

Um, I was looking for Matthew. Show me the first.

The first thing you. Yes. If. Um.

What can I do for you? Do I need to tell you how to do this?

Whenever I want to do anything like that, you.

You know. You know what happens to all that as well?

Oh, yeah. Yeah. No. Oh, no.

What do you mean, why? Why you want to work?

All right then. Yeah. What do you think?

Um. Well, just that one quick question. Okay. Okay.

I do this thing. I didn't get along, and I don't know who it is, I mean.

You need to do the homework. Oh. You're right. Because you do not know your name.

You guys okay? Yeah. You know what? I'll be okay.

Yeah. Okay. So you need to work.

So first go to working directory. Why do you say three underscore.

Uh, or the underscore file or something. Yeah.

And then you need to write this. You need to write this.

Again I'm explaining again here. Forget about the date of the book.

Read the tribute. Why do we? Because it depicts a CSV file of CSV.

Okay. No, I mean, I completely excel file all of these.

So go back to this question mode because I'm good. First you think you grasp what it is.

Okay. So reach up to me because in the next slide remember don't forget quote unquote,

this is the name of the file that's separated by header is equal to true running.

With the beginning of the definition.

How many of you have seen flooding conditions.

Okay. Who was it. It was on.

It focuses on the movement itself. Yeah.

It's, uh, which we have with a select group of one on 15 Consolidated Press.

Right. And that is one of the companies.

You just might need that. Yeah, I you know that.

It's funny. Well, I haven't been reading. Yeah.

It's exciting. Right? You got other things that you would want?

Yeah. Yeah. You know the way you order one.

Well. I'm not returning back to the game.

Well. Oh, yeah. Now I.

And if we were. Of.

So. Do what you will.

Because if you do. I love you.

And honestly can do without the injustice of humanity defeat.

Over 50 tons of data. I feel like myself. Aren't you?

Right. I want to thank you all for. He gets home at night.

University education takes a hard one. And he was coming out.

You know. It's interesting because it's not, you know, have.

Come back later to explain what makes you laugh so stupid.

Well, this means that if. You can only find where you want.

They don't want you to think you don't have. No one want to use.

Uh, you know what? Yeah. You don't want to be finding, like, in something longer than five minutes from want to.

They don't want to do the same thing. Have.

Not. You know, it's, uh, it's gonna take a little longer.

So you have to go along with what you have to pay, I think.

I didn't, you know, make the money. You don't want to talk.

I think you might. You don't. You think so?

You doing your thing? I know it is. Do you have anything in your bag?

Yeah. You think?

One of the problems of the day. I love my uniform.

Thank you. I don't know. You don't understand.

So you want to. Know what?

You. 2 to 1.

I don't know. I don't know. Yeah.

Why do you. You.

Don't have to say you haven't got. It on.

When do you feel that you can go? To any sort of.

Yes, I know what it is to how it is.

But I do think you know that we live in Brazil, but we take what you can give us.

You got what you wanted. I think you can use helium again.

What did you just do? I'd like you to call my lawyer. I know that you're waking up well this morning.

If you have anything like that in this world. I don't want things to do.

Oh. Oh, God. If I do names no one here in front of.

Okay. I work side by side with Jesus and not just try.

How do you think? You know, like an ¥8 million fraudulent amount.

So. I was like, I want six.

Yeah. One divided by 35. Um, I'm not come out of those, I think.

All right. So looks like many people have done it.

Yeah. Anyone who could not read it here. You okay?

But let's not. Forget them.

I think they became original.

And it look that.

I do for me, it's not like the.

Important. Not so important to us.

It's not working. No.

It's not. How do I know it's not me?

When people find it. So they want to see that little one.

And it's something we did. I don't know.

Maybe we come up with inheritance.

No, it's not that, you know. I mean, I know people of association.

Well, this one I. Up.

Um. If we. Well, I think you can do with.

And then again. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on.

Yeah I saw. This.

Yeah. This one was like. You're one of your methods.

Yeah. You go. Did you.

Ever if you actually multiple people.

Know what? You're.

Okay, you move on one of these, you must be a wealthy or something like that.

You just want to believe you know how to fight if you can.

So you know what you got on this property for me.

I'm so excited because. I do not, you know, um, the difference between work and how to bake is made up of the cheap ones.

Yeah. Know that we have, um. Uh, now, I couldn't extract the answer three because I want, you know, what you can feel.

You know why you doing one thing about things I want you to feel important for to be free.

So what do we do? You can make ends meet all within the same time.

And then I will be paying attention. The.

Since I got my degree.

So. Uh, we'll see that this is positive for black and white.

So I'm doing it on the phone here so that you can see think.

Anybody abilities them and it would okay. If anybody else like that, it will that even better.

I can do what I can. Yeah I mean that's the whole point.

Oh in this one. Yeah.

It's okay. You know what? I want you to be.

Life on the life cycle. On the. The way I.

Okay. Lucky. Yeah.

Yeah, I yeah. Yeah. No.

That's not true. Right, Jerry? Yeah.

Let's see. This is one of the things when I'm working on this now, you know, it was all my fault, you know?

I mean, you know, we did it for you. Breaking the fourth wall.

Yeah. So I have a problem with you now, and I got no hope.

So now you could be living in Boulder. All right, so I think many of the people have done it.

So the main idea, main idea is how to read the external file which is dot txt.

I mean, if you can read this file, any txt file you can read. Yeah.

Okay. The first thing. What do you do? You remember when you were reading the file?

Next thing, you need to check the dimension of the data. You need to see what is coming.

Um, as a kind of, um. Uh. Like it?

Um, a top. So for example if this is me and then.

Let's see if I just copy it and then. Okay.

So, um. You. You need the.

Okay. So here, first thing I would like to check what is the dimension of data one.

Okay. So this is I can see so 2000 rows four columns.

Okay then I'm typing head data one. No no no no no.

So. Data. One.

Okay. So that's how we read.

Okay. So these are the first six columns. And then I am taking tail okay.

Tail of data one. Tail of data one meaning that last last six rows okay.

But I have understanding now this is a default something on default income in the age and loan okay.

Now if I ask you, can you make a, um, a correlation between can you make a correlation between income age and loan?

I don't want to take into account default column.

I want a correlation between income, age, and loan.

So. Yep.

I think you can even do what your mother. Okay, here's the first pass on Thursday.

Just. Can just make.

One. He.

You know what that means? Yeah. Let's do it. You can do it for free.

Don't you think we need to go to New Zealand? No.

Okay. Ten minutes. And then.

And then I did something else here. And we just need to do a sample flight of the GDPR.

Whatever you want. I just want to see. I mean, you have options now.

Thank you. I think a lot of these.

This one. This one will feature 140.

That's a. But it may be the only.

The future. You can.

Thank you, Mr. Campbell. You have.

We ought to. It's hard to.

One of the things you see here.

But I never thought. So.

You. You know, sort of.

Which makes people really. No.

Don't let them get you like this.

We do the same things only once. You. You know.

But I couldn't agree with you.

Um. So we have some.

It is more important. I.

He finishes. You do?

You see, I. The ultimate.

Was a. Um.

For the patient population of the village within the holding company.

What do you think? Come on, come on.

I allow you. You need to change the color.

You know, they were able to open. If you feel.

Hundreds of. The integrity of.

It's affected my own. Just like.

So we can do some work, you know. So that.

For one reason only for. Okay.

How many people have done the first point? Which function you have used.

What is the result? What is the relationship between, um, uh, income and age?

What is the correlation value? Any any age hasn't seen them.

Yeah. Okay. Okay. So. Okay, then.

And then, um, encompasses loan 0.15 okay.

And then age versus loan. And.

Okay. All right. Okay. And and then somebody.

Tools. Have you found. Have you? Have you done the statistics? Yeah.

All of them. Yeah. Okay. And did you plot anything?

Did you? I'll be honest with you.

And. I did it. All you do is play a.

Calcium carbonate. If you think about it, in all creation, you make it hard for you.

That's not good for you, right? Yeah. Yeah, yeah.

Then it gets like school age for those.

Yeah. I know what you want.

Yeah, I used to do. It's good to see of.

Yeah, I think so. I think that.

Hey, guys. And that leaves us.

No no no no no. You know, we would never use that.

We would take off. I don't know if it's like.

Okay, so I will not tell you 100% solution.

I will just give you some points here. Okay. The first thing.

So when you when you talk about the correlations okay.

Um here. It's just a core function.

Yeah, it's just a core function. Yeah. Um, then the summary tool, summary tools probably would have given you some plot around.

And the way it works probably will if they're not missing the plot function will not take into account that particular sample or particular person.

Yeah. Is there any missing data? Yeah.

Which which do you have done? Is built in a.

Somebody somebody in some other things tell us also. Okay. So that's good.

So meaning that you can get an estimate how many are missing. So which is really great.

Okay. Normalize the data using scale. Now the thing is probably we have to do with the missing mode.

But you cannot normalize it without doing anything on the missing. Okay.

So this is something I will keep you thinking.

What can you do with the missing. Without missing the beacon anomalies.

You see what I mean? So probably you could do some imputation process and then.

But I wanted to put these questions anyway because this is the way we see it.

So first you describe the data, first you read the thing and then you think about what are the ways you can impute the data sets.

And then you normalize the data. Okay. So in your free time please think about how we can.

Kind of impute the data and normalize the data. And I have already written the scale function, okay.

The scale function automatically iterate over all your columns and then do the scaling.

Okay. All right. I'll go slowly to the other stuff a bit.

Um, so this is you treat as a homework or something like this.

You think about and try to fill it up. Okay, so you read the file, you look at the distribution, you look at the correlations and other things.

Yeah. And then see if you can do something extra there.

Okay. Um. All right.

Now, in this particular exercise, what I have done here, I have removed those missing columns.

Why? Because there are 2000 observations out of 2000 observations I have removed.

If any of them had got any missing. So what I have done here, I have only it, and it would only be.

And it would only data one and one, meaning that I have nine and it would go and getting are you don't consider it any missing.

Sample is there. And creating a new object for my new object is my dear one.

You see what I mean? But I want you to think about all the possibilities.

I'm just showing you one week. I want you to think about you do a million imputation.

Mean imputation and check the results. What are the differences?

Okay, so if I type this particular one.

Okay. So here. Now.

Dime f one. You see?

Only three of them are missing. Is it? Only two you're missing.

So, okay, out of 2000, I removed three. Yeah.

I mean, that's fine. Yeah. So probably you don't have to think about any imputation process for this particular example.

Yeah. So it it has. It has removed three subjects.

Is it clear? It has removed three subjects. Don't worry about the common command.

You can, you can, you can. You can type in chat. You can get it okay. But think about the process, what it is doing and why it is.

Yeah. Okay. So now. Now, I will show you a couple of other things here.

And remember, I mean, um, there are a couple of other packages I wanted to show.

So you see here summary tools. Yeah.

So this is the last one actually. So there are other packages which will give you description of your data descriptive statistics.

It's not only the summary tools will provide you a nice way of description.

Yeah. There are other packages doing the same.

For example this particular one. So. If I.

Okay for me. Also, there is no packages so I need to install myself as well.

So um. Hmm, I uh, c install, so I'm installing this particular package.

Hmm. I see, um. Yeah.

And then what I am doing. I have, I have loaded my library and I am using this particular, uh, particular recipe described, so I'm.

So here this describe function is coming from this particular package called h m ic.

Okay. So if I run it. You can see.

For variables 1997.

Observations. Okay. Default. How many mean missing zero.

See? Missing zero. Not because I mean every movie.

Yeah. Income in income there is zero info mean, uh, highest, lowest age.

And so you get you get quite, quite nice information there. Also descriptive statistics.

Yeah. Also descriptive statistics. Okay then then there is another one for example.

I think I have to install that one as well. Maybe um. Okay so if I.

Installed. Let's go.

Okay. And then. If I. If I check.

Yeah. Look nice. So here you can see all of them.

Not only standard deviation. Mean standard error. Standard error of mean coefficient variations.

All the things you can think of. Everything is there in this particular one.

So standard DSC applying on DF.

So each of them. So default for the default.

These are the data for income. These are the data value null.

Is there any name. Minimum value. Maximum value range. Some median mean median.

You see everything is putting on your table.

Okay, so the reason I'm showing you. So you should not think this is the only way to do it.

You can use any of them based on the your requirement.

Yeah. So if I send you some data set, can you read and do some analysis basic analysis.

I think that would be that would be a good, good exercise. You plot it and I will tell you what exactly needs to be done.

Yeah. And if I instruct you then it will be a really good exercise when I come back.

Um. And then we can start from from, uh.

So I think next class one more time, I'm going to start on the model and be.

Okay. I mean, have you heard about regularization? What about regularization?

To continue working. Anybody heard about regularization?

Have you heard about the regression? That's what we've heard.

So we think it's something. Something? Nothing. Anybody else here?

Have you heard about? You had to be a regression in 2011 and even before, like.

Lasso regression. Elastic networks. So we discussed he's not a high dimensional statistics.

So we will we will getting there. But but before that I'm just preparing you guys to understand those concepts okay.

Um. Yeah.

So these are some of the instructions. Okay now.

Okay. Maybe. I think this is the last 170.

See. And then also. Okay.

How do you want to do? Now you can say one thing, okay?

And that's it. Yeah. Okay. So the the thing is.

Um. It's, um.

Okay. So. Okay, I'll go to my R1.

So as you can see. So we we are very comfortable now with the descriptive statistics.

Yeah. Now, because this data is very unique in the sense that it is what the outcome variable is.

Um, is a binary. Yeah. And other predictors are like quantitative.

Okay. So I wanted to introduce now regression.

Okay, I wanted to introduce regression, but the problem is the outcome variable is a binary.

So you can really use regression. Okay. So we have to use regression with the quantitative variables we have.

Okay. So. So this is the instruction.

Yeah. This is the instruction in that case. Yeah. So I, um.

I mean probably you can create these things. So create income age and loan as a separate data separate object.

So what you can do you can chop. You can slice column number two.

1 or 2 is a loan or. Um.

Column two. Is it loan or income? So column number two.

Yeah. If you slice column number two put it is the income is object.

So now you can see income is in is your um object now.

Okay. Uh which is quantitative age. I think age is the second one or third one.

You you chop it and story age as eight.

Now these two are quantitative. Yeah, these two are quantitative.

For example, I'll show you. I'll be quick. But then I have to say that because I just, uh, we have just read the file.

It will be nice if we can talk about it. Will be so I forgot what what was there?

So I'm taking, um, what is the function data?

One DF one for me, DF one. Yeah, df one, so I forgot. What is this? So I am looking.

Okay, fine. So income, uh. Income I am creating from Df1.

I am chopping column number two. Okay, so. And then each.

Okay I am, I am, I am chopping, um, column number three.

Okay. Okay.

You see, I forgot one. Yeah, I am typing DF but it is a DF one actually.

So that's why it cannot work. So now I have created income and age.

I want it to regress. I want it to use income as my y new y and age is my predictor.

You see what I mean? So I want to make a linear regression. So what.

So you understand right. There is a difference between multiple linear regression and regression.

Simple linear regression. Simple many. Only one predictor.

If it is multiple, as it says, more than one. Okay, so.

In are the function which we are going to use called elem function lm for linear model okay.

LM okay. LM for a.

Sorry. Yeah, I should have. Prostate.

Um. Okay.

So. So this is it.

One of the great function I coming. With the basement.

So if you install the beast, Alan will be automatically available for you.

Yeah. So what I'm doing, Elon. Results.

I've created my own object. You can do whatever you like.

I'm using LM income. There is a field here.

Is it? Is it the decimal something? I mean, you could find it.

You, uh. It's a connection. I don't know what it's called, but we call it.

Is it disinfo or something? H oh, no. Then data is equal to data.

One for me. Df1 yeah, for me it is df one.

Okay. If you. And then what? What does it mean? I am storing all the conclusions in results and then I am interested.

What is the summary of the result? And if I do so, if I do so, then you can see you can get a very nice estimate okay.

You can get very nice estimates. You can get residual, you can get options.

What are the coefficients. So we come to the coefficients. Good estimates.

Yeah. Um you can get an intercept okay. Is a negative.

Yeah yeah yeah it is error devalue probability values.

So you can see that the intercept is significant. Me is not passing through the what do you.

Yeah. So you and your threshold you think you guys I mean the other thing is important is the probability that look at even here okay.

There are five in. And because it is a regression you could ask where you get a multiple R-squared.

You can adjusted R squared. What is the difference. Oh um.

I don't know how we find a discount school, but all I know is that a few people are hiding variables to model the multiple r-square will increase,

but then we use adjusted R square to make sure that we're adding variables that actually make sense.

Okay. And how does it work? Like how? Like how do you interpret it?

How does it work? So. So the thing is that it is normalized. You write what you see.

It you keep on increasing. We want to control it. How do you control it? You remember the number of samples is normalized by number of samples.

So people and this is more reliable and tested in R squared is more reliable publicly.

Okay. And then you can get many other parameters here. I mean you can see for significance for zero meaning tester.

Yeah. 0.01 for all that you can do to start.

Uh, and these are the, uh. These are the way you can interpret and then you can see this is a t step, meaning the probability then is very, very low.

So you can accept the null hypothesis. You can reject the null hypothesis. Okay.

Other things. Three observations deleted due to the missingness. Oh, really?

Uh, okay. Because, yeah, of course, maybe you do this move because I'm thinking my gear when I already moved it, right?

But what does it mean? It means l function itself can accommodate the missing value by removing the columns.

It does it for me. Yeah, it does it for me. Okay.

So yeah. And Exelon function is very, very useful. So what I'm telling you is that.

Today's if you if you think about today's class, we have looked at many, many different things.

We have we I think one of the important thing we have, we have done how to redaction of files which is in dot txt.

Now you can ask me how to read CSB file. It will come.

But you didn't force this to. Okay.

And then some basic statistics. So you brush up your statistics because next time I'll be going a little bit faster.

I'm not going to ask you what it is to a lot of things. I'm assuming, you know, you regression, all the things are very good.

I'll start with some some high dimensional statistics.

Okay, I think I should stop now. I mean, I think I have all loaded you guys in quite a lot, so, uh, but, um, wait for my email.

I'm going to send you a read through and give you some instructions. Yeah. So you want to move these items in between.

And when I go next, I'll revise anyway. But then we'll walk away from whatever stuff.

Yeah. All right. So till then.

Yeah. Have a good evening then. And see you soon. Okay.

That's coming up in.

