[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
I've been searching for. Okay. Uh, rather than one.

Um, so we will continue from the last session.

Uh, before we continue, there are a couple of things I would like to ask.

The first thing is that. What you mean by machine learning.

What do you mean, no human? And what is the difference between the statistical aspect?

With machine learning that we began to calculate.

And then instead of giving clues, we give the input and the output.

And the machine learning is able to learn to do that.

And the difference between statistical models and learning is that machine learning is always non-parametric models.

But it's not true. Vice versa. Yeah. Yeah okay.

So these are the so these are so this is a kind of the first question.

Yeah. But also uh, there are a lot of terminologies around it.

I mean like artificial intelligence, machine learning, deep learning, many, many different, um, terminologies.

So um, sometimes AI and ML people tend people use it interchangeably.

Okay. So that's good. Okay.

Um, why machine learning is important for your books.

What do you think? Or it is not important. Who thinks it is important.

Or MSC financial. Uh, technology.

Course. Okay. One, one. Okay.

And why? It is important. What it can do.

A lot of things I think can help you detect fraud in prices.

You can just do anything and that. Okay, maybe not everything, but maybe overseas.

Most of the things here. Okay, so so many people are not coming from this kind of background, but some people have studied statistics in this case.

So what would be the main limitations? If you do the traditional statistics in the data you would need.

Let's say it's only getting you in stock market data, maybe finance data.

And the one person is doing the traditional statistics.

Other person is doing machine learning based model.

What would be the basic difference between these two approaches if it does not assume that the data is knowledge, do it.

Yeah yeah yeah. So so usually I mean, if you follow, uh, the statistical principles, maybe they are following, um, uh, very basic assumptions.

Yeah. And, and the people who are following the machine learning kind of approaches, maybe they're not following any kind of assumptions.

Yeah. So they are, as you said, um, they are mostly in the non-parametric in nature.

Okay. So again, the next important question is what is the differences between the, uh, the supervised and unsupervised machine learning models?

Okay. Be safe. It's. I need something?

I don't know. What do we got?

You know, when you get older. We have time together.

Uh, yeah. Yeah. So? So the basic difference is that either you have got your level or you don't have your level,

meaning that you have outcome variable or you don't have an outcome variable. Yeah.

Okay. So what is the training and testing samples. Why do I say I changed my mind?

What does it mean? He said uncle didn't.

Okay. And then if I say, well, what is the testing? So you only gave you more than you tested the output including data.

You give the input and you give the output to the machine. Again understand what data you want to see how the language looks.

Okay. Yeah. All right. So these are clear. And what do you mean by cross validation.

What do you mean? The probability of getting the death sentence are some different decimals, each iteratively.

Okay. Yeah. Yeah, different test samples in a iterative fashion.

It could be. And it could be. Maybe you divided you data, uh, three times.

Or maybe so. Then it called default if divided by five different sections or segments randomly.

Then you've got five fold here. So there are many different ways of doing it.

Okay. All right. Um how do you know about model quality?

So when I you the model, how do I know the model quality is good or bad?

What are the things we should look at in terms of classification?

Model quality. Model quality, meaning that you are, you want to say is a good model or bad model.

And if you're doing error, residual precision, precision F1 score okay.

Accuracy correlated decisions. Yeah. So so and what about the regression the uh animacy or the RBC the error rate of the model.

Okay. Or uh um, variance explained by the model how much variance is going to explain usually uh represented by r squared okay.

So so these are the way we can we can quantify how good or bad model is.

Okay. Now today we are going to do a little bit of regression okay.

And and I assume you have done many many times doing this.

So I go very very fast okay. But I just wanted to set up some story.

What is regression. And then we go to high dimensional regression okay.

So what is regression. What is depression?

What do you know about regression? Give me five things about regression.

So number one was well, first we have independent independent variables with dependent and independent variables.

So regression is a supervised way of doing number one. Second point apart from.

Let me put in the sensitivity. No, you said something.

I want something else. Seven point integration.

To get the value of the outcome, we have to.

We have to reduce the error. So that we have two people precise.

Okay. Yeah. Okay. Okay.

I think I think halfway. Okay, let's read it for you.

What is the problem with regression? If I do multiple regression projects.

Right. What are the two rates being linear and multiple?

Linear means only one predictor. Multiple. Multiple.

What is the limitations of multiple linear regression limitations?

Number one correlation. Correlation between. The four which is and why you never.

Multiple multiple regression. Yeah.

Okay. So you are saying all these in between a cookie sheet, but then actually you meant probably the quality between the variables.

Right. Okay. So what what is going to happen is in the upper level.

So I'm going to write it down here. So first point the problem of multiple linear regression is is number one is the correlation.

The four between. Between variables here.

Something measurements here. Okay.

How much correlation is correlation in that case you are considering? So when you say correlation, is it 0.1 correlation.

No more than 0.5. Or we.

Or 2.9 or 2.9. What is your definition of correlation in the context of?

What? The variable cost. Okay.

Well, I mean, I mean, maybe we we are talking about some data from the banking industry so you could aid you get that some sort of thing.

Uh, they are quite they are working in this kind of things.

I think it should be net zero if it's more than zero, you know that's not okay.

But there is a specific target looking for. So correlation between the particular variable.

What is the single main single word for that. Second multicollinearity.

So this is this is multicollinearity is a problem right.

So if it is a multicollinearity what is going to happen that your variance covariance matrix,

your variance covariance matrix which you need to estimate your beta. Cannot be inverted.

There is a mathematical formulation. Inversion meant that doesn't happen because of the correlation.

Okay. And this creates a lot of problem in the analysis.

So we would like to overcome these type of problems okay. So we'll discuss a little bit more.

So we are going very very fast here. As you can see.

Uh this is um you already know.

So this is the beta estimates. But if you can see a linear equation we can keep on writing the equations.

Right. So let's say you have um you have p number of measurements in.

So p number of measurements and number of objects and number of individuals.

And you can write to keep on writing the equations. Now you can keep on writing the equation.

And the problem is that if you x2 and x3 two of them uh, maybe 0.9 or 0.95 or some sort of a correlation, then it is a bit problematic.

Yeah. Okay. And we can also write a very closed form.

We can write a very close form. Exactly. Same de CV equals form right.

So you want to make that minimize the residual error. And that's the equations.

And again y you have estimated one predicted. And then uh observed versus estimated.

And then you can write um uh you can decrease by this thing like I by these equations w I or is very similar to the beta here.

So these are all coefficients. So these are all known. Yeah. So these are all known um.

And the problems as I was discussing, there are many, many different.

So multicollinearity is a big issue and you will encounter this issue in your data too.

Meaning that once you do correlations, you will find that the some of the measurements are very closely linked.

But there is a consequences. Consequences. These are consequences.

Yeah. Unstable. Uh, estimates. Uh, no. Uniquely defined.

And the high variance of each. So there are many sequences.

So people try to try to work on those areas.

Okay. And they have shown that in in these kind of things the behavior the behavior of the beta is, is really unstable.

So you can see and in this particular uh slide you can find models.

Right. Um, uh, different models, but then different models estimated different types of beta.

So if you use X model your beta will be different from Y model.

And people call it is a beta bouncing problem. Okay. Um, and this is the discuss a lot in this book.

Oh, by the way, uh, if you look into the canvas I have uploaded, I have there are many, many other documents.

So I kind of, um, um, what it is called, uh, shadow, all the other things which I only reflected,

which I'm kind of telling today and relevant information so that you can do focus.

Okay. So if you look at the fifth merge,

you would see that I actually also and that's one of the book these so you can read the if you if you are interested.

Okay. Um. All right. So?

So what is the solution? I mean, if, if, if this is happening, if we can keep happening.

Well what are the solution. So remember I was I was giving you this kind of, um.

Collinearity or multicollinearity happens a lot when we are dealing with y data okay.

Y data y data meaning that you have this kind of the structure data.

Okay. Your let's say you have a one and is equal to 100 individuals.

But then you are measuring 200 t okay, 200 B 200 measurements on 100 sample.

In this case it is con is a p greater than zero. Okay.

Now, in this type of wide data set, you always, always by default you get a high collinear.

Okay, so all the regression you have learned all in the context of all data.

If you recollect, you will have maybe 1 million patients connotations of, you know,

individuals, and maybe you measured only 50 or maybe even thousands of individuals.

Maybe you have only measured 50 to 100 different parameters, even lower sometimes.

Okay. And that's why you could do it. But here you cannot do that okay.

All right. Um, so how to get rid of.

So sometimes what people do. People take these and do some filtering.

Okay. We will do some kind of filtering this way. Okay. 200 I do need I may need less number.

Maybe they use a domain expertise.

So if you want someone in the finance, those who are working maybe 15, 20,

30 years in the same domain, if you ask them, you know, I am working on these data.

What do you think they say? Okay, vulnerable everything you take x, y, z.

That's it. So x y z you have 200 x y z maybe t.

So you just be three. Maybe so. But this knowledge is coming from domain expert deep domain expert knowledge okay.

Second option that you don't want to use domain expert, but what you can do.

Maybe you why you have to give it away and your why is a quantitative.

Because I'm telling you in that context of regression you can do a linear regression,

not a multiple linear regression, but linear regression one by one.

And then you can you can look at the p probability values okay.

You can look at the probability values 0.25. And then once you do it maybe from 200 it boils down to let's say 85.

Okay. 85 significant 185 significant probability below 0.05.

And that's the number you are. Happy week maybe okay.

But still out of 85 there is a high probability those guys might also be called.

Okay, so it is a kind of a, uh, you're trying to solve another problem, but you are partially solving, not 100% solving.

Okay. So, um, and then you you don't want it to remove any other important, uh, feature.

So there are many, many different approach, uh, approaches I had talked about first one just now.

So either regression statistics or maybe, you know, based on your classification or binary binary outcome.

Um, then some people do that emission reduction.

Okay. Some people are saying, okay, I am not using 200, but then can I be it?

I think some people said it in previous, previous classes.

Okay, can I be in 200 in a in maybe ten beans?

Something like these ten beans or 20 beans or something like this. But we discuss today, actually we are going to discuss how to make the bean.

Okay, so you are not using 200, you are using one again.

So that is also one of the solution here. Okay. Uh, and machine learning of course.

And then the, the the another thing is you, you might want to use, uh, penalization method.

Okay. Now this is getting a little bit complicated here. What is penalization method and other thing.

So we'll, um, we'll talk about more on that okay. Any questions so far?

Okay, so what? All I am saying, you have learned already.

I'm saying that, um, um uh uh uh, my why is the quantity.

I'm saying that it's a regression. Usually one is simple, one is multiple.

There are some problems in multiple linear regression. And we are going to look at different options.

How can we solve this. Okay. Now for the practical purpose I would highly, um, um, uh, recommend you.

And actually this is one of the package uh, we are going to use.

We are we are calling it is a classification and regression tree.

Correct? Okay. Now. In this particular package.

We can pre-process the data. We can split the into.

We've been training and testing the data. We can compare the model.

Only one package we need. So everything is. And, um.

Those package. Okay, this is all I can. And I restart you how we can do it.

And these are the functions we are going to use, uh, in. So meaning it.

We don't have to do anything extra if you just wanted to write some script or are trying to, um, um,

kind of a get around and the some sort of a machine learning models, we can we can we can work with the kind of package.

Okay. All right. So I think.

We can. Start working a little bit on the on the hands on now.

Okay. Now what I'm going to instruct you what I'm going to do.

We are going to use carrot package. Okay. And then we are going to use only.

Only revision. So no repetition that we have learned not to see.

When I would like to see the training, testing, splitting all the things I have talked about yesterday.

So those people have not been in a study. Probably you figure out how you are going to do that.

Okay, so you figure out how you're going to do that. Um, and then we are jumping to the practical right now.

So the function we are going to use. You can see frame.

Okay. Um, and then there will be some outcome variable here.

Data. We are going to training method LM. So this is very generic kind of a function.

Okay. Now in this particular function you can see method is this part is working for the Ellen Ellen for linear model okay.

We can replace different method. So you literally you can run 150 different models.

Artificial neural network. We need to put even if it is a if it is a random forest, we need to put out this kind of generic.

Okay. Um, pre-processing the people.

Something is happening here. You are centering the data and scaling the meta. All right.

Um. Okay, so first thing would be you need to install the carrot package and and something called ML bench.

So this is the first step. So if you can install these two things then I will instruct you further.

So. That's.

Okay, install these two pages and then once you open them, then I can do more on this.

Okay, so if you remember, I don't know if you remember or not.

Um, we can use these install. And then if I don't get carried.

Okay. So you can see this this this is the first one. Okay.

And then. If you install it.

Okay. How many people able to install? One. Two.

Three. Four. Okay. Here.

Okay. All right. So more or less both of them.

If you have no. Okay.

If you install, what are we going to do? We are going to load those packages.

Okay. So maybe, uh, you can you can write it here. I'm I'm going for shortcut stuff.

Um. New project. So.

Okay. And then the data data is inbuilt.

So data we are going to look into uh something called Boston Housing.

Okay. So if you put data. You will see.

And then I can say I am dying. The first thing is you want to check the dimension of the data.

Okay, so if you recall, I know there are a few weeks. Um.

Maybe him. Those were practice. Probably.

You know, the first thing once you install or read the file in this, in this case you don't have to read the file.

In this case this data is already inbuilt. Okay. Um you need to install an image like.

Yeah, I think you. Okay.

Everybody think they got their data in? Just me.

If you go to data and see. He's my uncle.

Okay. Okay. So do you want. Bingo.

You know, and the like. She did a lot of things.

We needed some. Some. Yeah.

Okay. So once you get your data, what are the first thing you wanted to check?

Um. Head. Okay, so I wanted to check.

Okay, so I am checking head and tail. Remember those functions? Yeah.

So because I don't want to print everything there are 506 rows.

And 14 columns. 506 rows and 14 columns.

So in that case, what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to print first six rows.

That's the command you give head. Okay.

So you can see there are some parameters here.

Okay. And then if you wanted to know what does what does it say.

I think I kind of. Uh.

Second. Yeah.

So this is the parameter. These are the parameters, the heavy rain content, for example, cut in part of the primary by Tom.

Okay, so once you read the file. For six rules.

You can see there are columns, right? Column names. Each column has a meaning.

What does it say? It says here that I am saying what? Proportion.

Proportion of residual angels. Not, uh, not true or not?

Over 25,000ft². So these are different measurements in the housing characteristics okay.

Housing characteristics where we are located. Okay. Um, and then more interestingly, the what is our outcome variable outcome variable lease.

And the movie makes mean value. What are a home.

Okay, so this is a kind of a price. Okay.

And that's it. That is you, right? Okay.

That is your Y, that is your outcome variable in this case and rest everything is a predictor variable.

So you are going to use a linear regression or multiple linear regression in the context of.

In the in the philosophy of the machine learning model, meaning that you are going to split the data.

You are going to do, um, um, some pre-processing.

But in a machine learning context, the idea is if you can do for LM,

probably you can do for other method, and you will use this data for other exercises to.

Okay. Conditions.

Who? Okay, so here you can.

Uh, I think I put the script as well in the in the canvas. If you can look in, there is a text file.

Um, so this is called LN 0503. If you can download, you can see the script.

And then. Oh, maybe. Yeah, I think I mask the other one.

Okay, so it is LM one is the street. Okay.

Okay, so the first thing, you read the data and you check the dimension.

And then what we are doing here we are we are splitting.

80% to 80%. Okay. How we can split the data.

So. We have created an object called validation underscore index.

And this is the function called create data partition. Okay.

Create data partition is the function from Boston housing.

I am shopping and I am doing the shopping operations. And then I am taking MTV, MTV's Our Outcome variable.

Right? Yeah that's a of and chopping it in p.

P for probability. So this function what it will do.

It will randomly pick up 80% of the data and 20% of it will separate.

P is equal to 0.8 meaning that it will understand the 80% you are asking for 8020 split.

If someone is putting 0.60, it will understand 60% 40% splitting of the data.

This is 60% for training. Yeah. You know, we are going to instruct you how training is going to happen.

You'll see. Excuse me. Uh, okay. Sit, sit.

Okay. So you, you know, in this type of process, there are a lot of randomness.

Meaning that if you. Let's say you are running in 80% and I'm running at 80%.

Your 80% individual will be different from my 80%.

Okay. You understand? Right? Because they are not a free sampling. Okay.

Now also for you, if you close the computer and tomorrow you run again, it will be different.

So I want to make a consistency set. What seed is it is in our memory.

It will be nine. If all the them use nine. It will take same samples which go for training.

It is for reproducibility. I mean it's not about nine.

You can do you can you can give one, two, three, four, five five by 5000.

It will create a location in the memory in R each time you run one, two, three, four it will reproduce the results.

Is it clear? Yeah. Okay. So.

Okay. So what I'm doing here, I'm kind of a, um. And copying this, and then I'm going to paste it in in my room.

Okay. Um. Okay, so I have created a kind of a, um, um, kind of a we get a split in 80%,

20%, but then I have to do something extra to to make program understandable.

Okay, now I'm mentioning. Okay.

Now I'm mentioning in this particular case, um, okay, give me training samples.

Okay. So I have created a object called training.

And from the object I am dropping. And this is dropping operation.

If you remember this is positioning. Do you recall this third bracket is coming.

Third bracket. If you recall, this is positioning. Okay.

So I am I am copying this. Okay.

And. Pasting here.

And once I have created. I am again checking my dimension of my training data.

Now I have created my samples. Okay.

So what you will see. Training samples reduce dimension.

No, it did not change anything in your measurement.

You did change your rows. So it created a subset.

It created a subset. Random subject. Okay, so it created a random subject.

All right. Okay. Uh, how many people until this point?

Until this point. Are you following?

Yeah. Yeah. Okay, great. So. Okay, so now I have generated my training samples.

Right. Let's go. Let's look into, um. Okay.

Dimension, I have checked. Okay, let's look into the. Validation samples okay now or individual.

So here what I am all doing. Okay.

Both. You can remember this symbol like negative m negative validation underscore index meaning that I don't want.

So here I have created everything with validation index.

And now I a kind of a negation kind of I do not want that. So so it's like I you have created training sample for 100 individuals.

Give me a rest. Others as a validation. That's it. That's all it is saying.

So. So if I run it and then as I said, it is a good practice.

Always, always. Please check how many numbers are there.

You see. Yep.

So always check how many a numbers you can see.

So if you add up you can see this is actually the total number of your if of your space real number of your data.

So question is, do you know now how to split the data. Which function you are going to use the data partition.

So this is a p is equal to 0.8. I want you to make some practice 0.60.4 whatever I mean you should.

Okay. Great. So. And now, now that we have it, training samples and validation samples, we are now going to build some models.

Okay. So we will see how it look like here. Okay, now I have created a control.

Okay. This is called control train control CV method.

I want cross validation and number. How many times ten.

So I am actually doing ten one. And these are very generic.

If someone want to change these to change here, that's fine. I can go here, right?

Okay, so I have created. So I am copying here and pasting here.

Okay so so so like like I have created a control as an object.

Okay. Next sentence. So again, let's say we forget how many, how many, how many times.

Cross validation. Cross validation is what type of cross validation you are going to use.

Okay, so I think this is the heart of things.

Now this is the main thing what we are going to do. So at fit dot lm meaning we are fitting a linear regression model okay.

As I see. So training frame three is a function.

I am taking the outcome variable here. This symbol take into account all your predictor variables.

But. But here. Um.

Nina is only 14. Remember, data is only for training.

So that's what I'm going to do here. So ctrl see if you if you can.

Okay so it's running is done. Okay. Training is done.

Print. I want to print it and look. I mean, I mean, let us see what is the printing?

If I print it, you can see here what is what is being done here.

Okay. So it's got some linear regression. There are 13 predictors y 13 one.

There are 1214 one is your outcome variable in this case.

That's why 13 okay. And you can get it uh some estimates you you have done.

Um oh in this case no pre-processing. I haven't done any pre-processing because I just want to show I will modify that again.

Okay. No pre-processing. Um, summary of the samples.

So you can see some extent. What are the samples actually dot or dot.

We can get all the information about the samples as well if we want.

Okay then MSE root mean square r square u c r square value.

Uh ma e median average variance was very much, uh, seeing some sort of a median value here.

Tuning parameter intercept was held constant at a value two.

So because it is a linear regression so that the tuning parameter intercept is talking about.

So this is the training. But let's see if you do a testing what is happening.

But before that there are many different model has been gone okay.

So we are printing the final model. What is the final model is look like okay my final model look like this.

You can get into the coefficients here okay.

Some kind of a formula.

And uh, and uh, um, if you, if you use this a print function on, on your object on the final model, then you can see this is your final model chosen.

Okay. Um, and then predict on the test set, I am, I am.

And I'm predicting new data. So in this case new data is a validation data.

Okay. So if I if I do it predictions and then you can you can find your predictions.

And then I can print all the predictions here. If I, if I just type here you can see these are all predictability numbers.

You see um the house pricing predictability number.

So these are all individuals. And for the test set.

Yeah. And these are the predictions. Okay, I'm going a bit fast, but I give you some time to think.

And then and then trying to reproduce and trying to interpret what is happening.

So first of all, I haven't done any pre-processing. And that was the.

I just want to show you something. But now that now I'm going to do a second version, including pre-processing steps, pre-processing,

meaning that maybe I can take out the median value or mean value from each of the measurements so that it will be more complete.

Okay, so we can split the data. We can fit a model we can predict on the model.

And we can still do that. Okay.

Yep. Thinking about when I was reading.

Okay, um, I said. For me to conclude.

Once the transmission. Okay.

Yeah. Are you? Here. Oh 3:52 p.m.

If they do install you? Yeah.

Looking more welcoming after this one. Well, yeah, although I will probably have all the, uh.

When you have one.

One thing. You know, before anyone, anything.

Maybe. I mean, before fitting, like in 911.

It's not like, you know, up until.

What does that mean when you stop? Oh, I mean, you know, all these other things.

But then I can see that. Thank you much.

Thank you. I'm.

At least for one session, when there's going to be, uh, you know, it's a.

Oh, yeah. See, I know this is actually said something like this recently.

Hmm. How long have we known?

I think I can. Yeah.

Coming up. Let me go home and just run it.

Okay. Okay. Um.

Just. Just from here. Mhm. That's. Shaking his.

Yeah. That's it, you know. For so long.

The. So we didn't want to give up.

First. What is it that you think in particular?

Oh, probably because, um, I think it's legit, so it didn't.

So let's face it, I could vote. Okay, but, you know, he could be wrong.

Yeah, but you. Okay, so then you come to the same conclusion.

Yeah. Same reason. Oh.

And the food in this region.

And then the. If we let you go.

You. Okay.

Thank you. Believe this?

You know, can install it. And then you select the first one.

Select your. You can use it.

And. It means we have to on it.

I think this is a very interesting subject for some people.

So let's start with the performance assessment. Yeah.

Sure. Yeah. So you got to be like okay, which is.

Just. Okay. There are a couple of things I wanted to say here.

I mean, you can see they're, uh.

All right, uh. Um.

So, you know, you did some modeling on the training data, right?

So if I were trying to do some kind of a swapping operation from training, you can see there are many, many different information.

So you can see there are a lot of information actually there hidden.

Okay. Lot of information so hidden. Um, sometimes we can check.

So you can see here as well. Final model. So this is the final model we are taking.

And then we can also look into some further down.

So we can check the coefficients. We can check the effect. We can check the residual.

We can check actually lot of stuffs.

Uh we can check there. Okay. So what all I'm trying to say is that sometimes once you do the calculations it is a good practice.

Then you can check how what are the results are associated with this particular object okay.

And this is very easy in this case. But things will getting a little bit complicated as we go along.

Yeah. So the main message, what I'm trying to tell you is that if you use the carrot framework, it is.

I mean, I mean, still it is big, but it is a general framework. It will give you quite a lot of information there.

Okay. Now, if I wanted to kind of use, um, a pre-processing step.

Okay. So here what I am going to do now I am going to.

Include. Okay, so in this particular one I am creating a new pre.

Okay so I'm adding. Um.

You. Okay, so what I've done here in this training I edit, pre-process, center and speed.

I'm asking are all the features need to be scaled?

And pre-processed. So this is the people preprocess function I'm including here and I'm creating a new object here.

Feet load pre pre for people sourcing okay. So if I if I run it.

Okay, so we get some warning, but that's fine. We don't need to wait for warnings.

Warning symbols. Okay. And then.

So actually what I've done here, I have added some sort of a new step here and that's it.

Okay. So and then I am saying this is pre. So I.

Okay, so I'm changing those one so everything will change now.

I don't pre um Lmp3 I'm changing.

Um that should be pre as well.

Yeah. Okay, so if I run it, let's see.

How does it look like? And if you compare, you see there will be differences between the coefficients.

The sign will not change. Coefficient. Value will change.

That's what's actually happening behind the peace process.

So so beyond the pre process what is happening there and subtracting the mean value of each of the measurements.

And so they're taking out the effect. Be pre-process.

You give in scale in center right. So and divide by standard division.

It's also called auto scaling Z transformation. Okay. So this is cool.

So this is happening there in the behind. So they are taking the normalized value for the modeling.

We do need differences in business. There will be differences in the magnitude.

There will not be differences in the direction meaning positive or negative. You see it?

You say, are you ready? It's thing for me. You see?

Who listen. Yes.

That feeling I'm getting. Good news.

And according to data from. I think one of the estimates.

Um. Um. Okay. You are actually saying you are talking to some people.

So it might be that people sitting in this case, uh, I need to check it again.

If it is, we have to do it previously, but it should work in this one. Um.

Okay, we'll take another example and check how it is affecting S. We don't.

So much. So good. Maybe I have done something wrong here.

Some things that people used in.

Okay. Once you estimate those values, we can store it.

Okay. So right dot CSV as you can see.

So we are we are we are going to um uh put all the predictions here in this object and, and we can, uh, save it as a local.

So meaning that once you, um, once you type the script, it will be in your local machine.

So we can see what is happening there. I mean, we can see the predictions.

Okay. Before you.

It's. I can't even read what was.

What was the thing? Is that and mama and cannot both have the same mother.

Uh, so there are conflicting updates.

Like with eating. Yeah. You see, these things are very, very detailed stuff.

Sometimes you mess up your. Did you think this just.

So if you want to comment on some of. But not like when I was so quiet in class.

Mississippi. Just. I think this is something.

So now once we have the prediction model say. Yeah, the predicted value beta will.

Yeah. You. And.

How can we. I. Yeah. So you mean so.

So this is all predicted one. If you if you contain MDB then.

Okay. So you need to compare with the images on the street here.

Yeah. And one of these is a number of different organisms are basically.

So you can see in the column that you can see compare with this one.

Uh, not even what is working on with a lot of detail.

How do you know which one. With this one. I do face this one.

I do play if I didn't play so much. Even so, you know what?

This is taking on the list. Yeah. So these individuals will be fixed in this case.

Yeah. It's something. He.

Okay, so, I mean, maybe you can move ahead a bit.

Uh, the only reason I wanted to tell you is that how carrot function is operating.

Just to acquainted with this one, LM is just a linear model function.

You are very much acquainted. I mean, how enemies one. Okay, you can do it in your in your SPSS or anything, but that is very normal thing to do.

Okay. Um, so I will, I will do a little bit more uh, and then you can, we can continue the practical after a little bit of theory,

I need to say, and then we will compare method we something um, something more advanced regression type of input.

Okay. So so in that case let me continue.

Okay. So. Maybe next half an hour I'm going to talk about theory and then you can jump into again the exercise.

Okay. And this exercise will be very interesting because you're going to compare two different methods.

Okay. Now so you have learned many or you have heard at least many different machine learning method.

Right. Okay. All the machine learning method, some extent we can follow.

Is it one of them. Okay. So there. Mainly for different.

One of them category is called regularization. Okay.

Also, sometimes call is a penalization. So penalization type of approaches or regularization type of approaches.

And these are the regression models. Lasso elastic.

Net ridge. Have you heard about this kind of regression.

Those words that economics, maybe econometrics, maybe they have studied those things because ridge regression actually the basis of other regression.

Okay. So in the context of econometrics course, uh, we discovered about this topic.

So yeah. So this is one of the second category is the decision tree data.

Okay. In this category here we are at a forest. There will be a, uh speaking gradient boosting extra um, expertly.

There are many, many different, uh, method under principles of the decision tree.

Okay. That one is the Arnold busybody. Okay. There are many, many different Arnold is modeling, but one of the example could be.

Support vector machine SVM.

What is a support vector machine? Okay.

And the third one is a neural network based model. So artificial neural network, deep learning,

long short term memory type of approaches and many of the same typically type of approaches, you know, sequential modeling.

Um. Um, well, majority of the model nowadays people are using a lot of these type of modeling effort.

So this one is really, um, it's like a long list if you go along.

But the principle is neural network. Okay, so what we are going to do, we are going to take you from there, you from here.

And then we are we are over in the coming days. Okay.

And then I am going to use the same framework of the can you remember the enemy have what you have used LM function.

Now you are in subsequent lecture you are going to put some other functions there.

Okay. Okay. So the first thing is a little bit on the penalization.

Sometimes they call it penalization. Sometimes they call it a regularization.

Sometimes they call it a sparse model. Sometimes they are calling as a shrinkage method.

Okay. They are the people use it as an interchangeably okay.

Unless you read an elastic net coming in that particular category.

Okay. Now, as name says, analyzation.

Something is something to do with penalty. No. And obvious thing.

I mean, if someone is think that like this, maybe something called penalties.

Okay. Now the theoretical foundation of.

Uh, Lasso Ridge and elastic net regression is very tedious, very rigorous.

But I'm not going into any detail about mathematical term.

But when I see a penalty, meaning that someone would penalties how the principal is.

The definite people are left to an elastic net.

The basic principle, they say if you are in the model, you have to do something.

If you are not doing something now, something I will define what is something?

Something meaning that you need to contribute for the predictions of your outcome variable.

That is something. Meaning that you are contributing some variance in your way.

If you are not contributing. You should be balanced.

That is the principle. And how you are going to balance.

So remember I just wanted to set something.

So remember you have.

I had everyone earlier given you have a metrics, you have, let's say at 100 individuals and then you had 200 measurements, meaning that we.

Okay. In this particular case, what is going to happen is, um.

If you bet, you can do a penalty. So you were saying that? What? I'm saying that if you have y you need to be contributing.

You need to be contributing to your Y. So if not. I lost some of the measurement kicked out of them.

So we apply penalty and because of penalty.

They are not in a model many, the beta will be zero.

You see my point or what? I'm trying to say that if you are not doing anything your beta, the coefficients will be zero.

By forcing beta is equal to zero. I had a sparse solution.

I get a number of be Lesbian 200.

Okay. So this is the basic principle. Okay. Now question is how we are going to to apply penalty.

How it. So these are the many questions are coming. Okay. Anyway so you have seen these these this slide earlier.

Okay. Now um and this is a this is why regularization is going to be important.

What is the regularization is very theoretical.

But um, in general there are different methods.

As I said. Uh, some of them uh, is um, uh, if I help you with that, again, we can define it the way the selection method.

So what is variable selection? You remember, I am saying that if you are not doing anything, you will be kicked out of the model.

I will land it up with very few measurements.

And that's the selected variable. And that's the variable selection process.

Sometimes people also call it as a feature selection. Okay.

Feature selection. Variable selection. The same thing.

And add meaning that we are talking about your your measurements here.

Okay. So Lasso and elastic net.

They are variable selection method, meaning some of the measurements will automatically kicked out of the model.

However, ridge regression they they they will not kicked out any of the measurements, but they will rank all the measurements.

So if there are 200. Features.

200 features will be the model, but you can rank them. So if I rank them okay, if I rank them, the first one is most important.

Second one is like this, not some sort of a contribution. Okay. So this is maybe feature number f1 f2 f3 feature 123.

So maybe we can get in this kind of graph.

So the top one is most important. Second one is second important and so on.

So for how many we get we get a 200. Or reach.

But here we are talking about LSU and you.

So actually I'm covering three methods, but I am telling you the difference is in. An aspect.

Okay. And there are many, many other variants where we are we we are not going to talk about those.

So let's do it. Self means capturing thing less.

It still means something to capture. Okay. Okay.

Now, now mathematically how does it work? It works.

You have seen it. Loss function. Loss of loss function is of beta.

So this is ordinal regression. Only thing ended up here some of the penalty parameter lambda and some function of beta.

These if I don't show you this one it is actually ordinary least squares okay.

Only thing in in the regularization process, the new terminology with the penalty parameter come up.

And that penalty parameter the lambda in. In this case we have to estimate.

Now yesterday I was talking about hyper parameter lambda is called the hyper parameter or not.

But let's do. Okay.

So mathematically, how does it look like? Mathematically, it looks like this is ordinary square.

This is ordinary square in this case. In this case, same as this one, but only this time.

This value is the only. This time what is new with some extra parameter which is hyper parameter.

Okay. So if you can see here this term is new term.

This is absolutely your ordinary least squares.

So this is ordinary least squares. Ordinary least squares. Only one thing is added up here.

Lambda is called as a penalty parameter, and this penalty parameter meaning that if you do a heavy penalty, many features would be zero.

You know, if you if you do a heavy penalty, many features would be zero.

If you are relaxed in penalty. There will be a non-zero coefficient small.

Okay, so there is a balance between how much you want. And that's why you should not use lambda by yourself.

But you, you should use I mean using the sense that, um, um, the data should decide how much lambda you need to put in your model.

Okay. So if you look carefully what is happening here?

Lambda times, this is the absolute weight of the coefficients.

That's it. Okay. Now, if you do so, there is a lot of lot of advantage.

Lot of advantage. What are the advantages? There are some of the advantages.

As a senior year, they are able to be selected depending on lender meaning high penalty,

less variable rate, um uh, monetary penalty, then more variables in your model.

Okay. Um. And then. And no grouping.

So like if there are a group of clusters in your data, this will select only one.

So let's say, um, you know, 200 variables.

There might be possibility that only, um, maybe ten of them are very, very highly correlated and correlation maybe 0.95.

In that case, list will pick up one. And that's how they get rid of the correlated variable.

And that's how they get rid of multicollinearity. Okay.

Okay. All right.

I don't know, maybe it sounds very abstract, but I think I think once you start doing it on the same data, you will see more and more things.

What I am trying to tell you. But yesterday I was telling hyperparameter.

So do you recall what was the definition of hyperparameter? Yeah.

So like anything which is extra. So here lambda is your hyperparameter.

You need to decide on how much lambda is good for your model.

And then that need to be done by by cross-validation and all the things.

Okay. All right. Now, uh, in terms of the rich, what is happening in in Lesotho?

It is it is an absolute valley right in the midst of what is happening.

Lambda times absolute value beta. Okay.

Now in range, it is happening. Beta square.

That's the difference. Okay, so these become less plus something of course, or less or less plus this one would make so that two or less plus.

Peter's Square make the reach. Okay, now there are some clever, clever people.

They thought. Why don't you combine?

Why don't you combine them? So you have all this. Do you have a Lambda Beta plus Lambda square?

Yeah. Two penalties, then the call is a number one and number two.

So you say, okay, I am including leisure plus I am including reach.

And then if I include these two, it become elastic net.

Okay. Okay. So.

So elastic net. How many buildings? Two penalties.

Meaning you have to make a decision. Yeah.

So we are talking about three things here.

Alice plus Lambda Epsilon beta or Alice plus Lambda Beta square and then Alice plus Lambda one in this case Lambda two.

Meter square. Okay. So this is representing let's do regression.

These represent range and these becomes elastic net.

Okay. So interview questions how many parameter you have to produce.

The answer. You would need to optimize in elastic to how you do it.

So this is very tedious. So what people do they do a best lambda.

They do a Jeep search. They want to see if two of them are how close they are.

They are looking for global optimization. So those are those kind of images, including the material of the uh local optimization, global optimization.

And then we can figure out somewhere where model is behaving in the training data.

They are balanced. And everything we can do in character.

Everything we can do in it. In a few lines of script. Okay.

Because these we select you feature. These are called sparse modeling.

Okay. It's pass. Elastic reach, is not it not sparse?

It is not sparse modelling because all the features will be in your model with a with penalty based options.

Because you penalize the model, the coefficients will not be real coefficients.

They are penalized coefficients. Because you see the equation.

Equation you see these are. These are estimates will come in on your beta.

So these beta estimate beta estimates will be quite finalized.

You. Okay.

These are called high dimensional statistics. Why high dimensional?

What becomes high dimensional? Because you are talking about many, many measurements and less number of individuals.

So this becomes a high dimension in your data. So you need to have this kind of statistics to apply and then try to get some solution.

Otherwise you need to select or do something extra. Okay, so choosing Lambda is a deal.

Choosing Lambda how we are going to choose. We are going to choose by cross validation.

We are looking for where lambda value is optimum. Only those when we are going to choose.

So creating lambda is quite critical. Okay.

Have you understand what I'm trying to say, at least? Do you recognize the differences between so learning outcomes from what?

And saying differences between ordinary square versus the super rich and elastic number one.

Second what is penalty parameter. How do we optimize penalty parameters.

Okay. Um and then what are the consequences of penalty in compare compare with lasso versus which.

Okay. These are all interview questions, actually. If you if you say like like a new facility is one of the limitations of multiple linear equations.

Second question is how do you overcome them? And they will if you are not saying anything about regularization, do that.

Have you heard about regularization? Okay.

If if you don't say anything, let's say USB. No. Okay.

And then they will ask you to explain anyway. Um. Evolution, I think I have showed you earlier.

Um, uh, we are looking for, um, a generalization error of the test.

I mean, we want to make a generalization. So. So that's why we do a validation in the test set.

And, and we have talked about, uh, elastic net and I have already actually said same thing.

Yeah. Uh, it just showing uh, in the presentation, but I think, um, I just draw it.

Um, but there is another thing. So people did not like there are two penalties, you know, because it, it, it computationally be completely illegal.

It computationally become very legal. So people thought about how best we can.

Maybe one is enough. Something like this. Is there any mathematical formulation we can use?

Only one formula. Okay. So they come back with this and they say, okay, we can write a equation where things are combined okay.

How we can do it. So let's say we are considering only alpha.

Let's say alpha is equal to zero. So if you put upwards equal to zero what is that?

This one is gone. Otherwise go to zero only lambda times.

Because what is happening here? So it is acting as a region.

Do you realize it? Ridge regression.

If alpha is equal to zero, maybe one is infinite.

Alpha zero means this term is gone. Zero means something.

Is these divided by two only because square.

So it is acting as if each. If alpha is equal to one other, it becomes less so they made it one equation.

They can get kind of this lady, once alpha is changing, it is behaving sometimes as a as a lasso, sometimes as it reach.

And in between behaving as elastic net.

Okay, well, I know it sounds maybe very, very mathematical, but you will see there is the advantage of doing it.

I mean, once you start working on that. Okay?

And I told you. I warned you that. Please go through this one. Heavy stuff is coming.

So this is heavy stuff. Really? Okay. All right.

Anyway, um. Uh, the properties.

The properties are very thin, so. So it will select automatic selection automatically.

It will give you. So for example, if someone is giving you a very big data set, meaning that 1000 measurement,

you can use these methods and you can say, okay, I have used this one and I have got these this number of variables.

These are important one. That's why model has chosen it okay.

So everything is data driven not not human intervention actually.

Yeah. Um a grouping and and variable selections are key.

Meaning that I mean let's try to select entire group of cluster sometimes.

So this is a very good property. Um, and then um, as I said here, um, usually very useful if your number of, um, um, uh, measurements are like high.

Okay. So what we are going to do, we are taking a five minute break and then we are going to do some exercise on lasso elastic net and ridge.

Okay. And the because I am coming next week I expect you practice.

I really mean in practice. Otherwise you'll be looking at each other and telling you.

And if you miss any class, no way. If you if you can, whatever recording, you see it very difficult to catch up.

Okay, so. So, um, five minutes break.

We are going go through some exercise here. Okay. We. Which is.

You know, this is a handsome man. Are you?

Get in trouble for some. The world's largest.

You know I'm you the very a thing like.

I don't know. Regarding you.

Do you still. Want to [INAUDIBLE] me?

So that homeless people when you get lost a little.

You can go to the city. Council as well.

You might get something. Or even if I'm not.

I don't know. I don't.

Like the thought of this. Yeah, I know.

Let me get a message for lunch and the rest of this group.

I'll be there. Let's go. Yeah. Thank.

Then I said. To him.

Actually. Up to 12 different plants and different prospects.

And. Lots of hotel rooms.

I'm gonna get up in front of them. What is it?

Probably be something. Maybe not in a month. Thank you so much.

We have. Yes.

It's not for the first. Yeah.

Why is that? Oh, yeah. Oh.

Hold on. I think I got it. Yeah. I.

Love that. So that's a good rule of thumb.

Turn off the light. Media.

Forget that. Um, you know, from the time I fault with.

Well, the only thing that I can say.

Let me know if you have any other item on.

However. So with that in mind.

I. Should. Like.

With the local. Media.

Thank you. Thank you all for coming out.

And I really understand the people trying to come up.

You. Right.

I don't know. I don't.

You. You didn't move.

People when they think. Yeah, yeah.

That. If you're looking at me.

It's. I think. Thank you.

Thank you. They.

With that. I know Jim and Katie.

Think of me. We immediately.

I just think, you know, within a couple Judy funding target within two days.

But we're defining. Don't you know it can be done?

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And then we can also go for commercialization, he said.

You know, we can talk to any and all we can do is walk in the commercial.

Okay. Okay. Okay.

And that commercialization does not always mean we get money.

Commercialization means it will stablish disciplines, and the Lord will want to look at data from frankly in that.

And it does not mean that, you know, there is no money in this country.

So, you know, just so we can create a data source database so we can build a database.

And this is the data. So we can do that.

On Denmark. I had a meeting with the CEO of a lab in Sydney.

And I told them that you know. You have invested 10 million in sea salt.

You are also aware that it is an absolute cancer. There are overbooking patients doctors who have let the ordinance jump ten years ago.

Still the males over there. You know the beds are getting empty, but the right person is not getting the best care.

It is absolute crap. Okay. The reason is you have three agents working and these agents are independent.

Oh my God. You know, so there is not a dashboard where you see what is happening right here.

So I said that I will make a dashboard for only 15,000 people, but instead they will come back to get them.

But the thing is, I've got the context is on the head. So if this can get data, you know, we can definitely do it.

Yeah. You know, then we can do this. So this is the database.

So here's who we are. Oh, look at that. Oh, yeah, I know.

I know. Yeah. You do know that you can do that, you know.

Yeah. Yeah yeah. So whatever. You can also have a database and.

Yeah he's only asking you may commercialization be asking for 10,000.

So initially no commission but just me.

We will work on within 15 minutes. And I'm going to.

Uh, who are you? Uh. Um. See? In that way, I.

Yeah. Listen, listen. I. Can go on an interview.

That's long, but I know where the money is. You know me.

Oh, yeah. You know that. The thing is, the, um, screening itself means, like, developing images.

We don't know the system architecture. It's coming.

Don't. Don't like it? It's okay. In this country, it is about getting money because you school.

That's the important thing. This is ridiculous. This is a scam because it.

You know. It's okay to be okay with.

Thinking about. Of.

Okay. You know I won.

I don't know why. I'm starting to walk people, and I just want to keep moving.

Maybe. I'm.

Just. Trying to make the same thing as a new volleyball game.

I think I forgot this one. Yeah, yeah, that's a little bit too good.

Doesn't. It.

I would definitely do it. This is the final 2,000,500.

And. 82.

Thousand 305.

All right. I hope you get it.

Yeah, it's. I mean, even if I just. I'm sorry, I don't understand.

I think we're fine. Well, I think we are. You see, here are what are some things.

You think that's crazy? Yes. That's because they're never even seen.

Oh, this is amazing. But we realize, you know, we can still do wonderful events where we would take you to the thinking of these people.

And I don't even want to be the one that I sit around looking stupid.

I just don't want to look at them and listen to any of those things and see how they want their lives on another mine.

I mean, I can just make the right decisions and use to any one, so don't tell me.

I'm not making any one. She's thinking, oh yeah, yeah, I'm thinking we could probably also give them this person that's a lighter.

So this is you. Do you want to have taken for granted?

So I won't do that. You're not playing golf and asking me to please.

Yeah, I didn't find that. You know, you're not going to get.

That I probably need it as well. I think that's one thing that, you see, I want you to think about.

I really like the whole name of the other thing.

But I think, like. Like you said, the beginning. Yeah. Yeah.

So I think, I think a lot of these are very helpful. Yeah.

I mean, you. Know, it's it's really about these variables.

I mean, you know, once again.

Let me show you something inside. What do you mean?

Oh, I'm so used to not like, in the context of something that, you know,

I'm putting more and more in the corner, but, you know, these are all kinds of things like that, so.

Yeah. So these are good. This is what I'm getting.

Okay. Yeah. People are taking opinion out of this.

Oh my God. I mean, I mean, if you go there and if you look like even Barclays and Bowie, I mean, it's one of the cheap.

I mean, he has nothing like that because of the fact that.

He's right and well, but. But what are you seeing? People are giving out of TV.

I mean, it's not, you know, if you are making people. Do.

You know, these are beautiful, you know? Okay, I think okay, I would start.

Yeah. Um, as you can see, I have I think I have 2 or 3 more three hour left next week and maybe two more.

So I have a lot of responsibility. I need to give you as much as I can.

Yeah. So, uh, but then the main thing is what I'm saying.

If you go back, um, I'm going to send some stuffs I have sent already some stuffs in announcement in these data.

I mean, you might want to use it. What you're learning, if you don't use it, it will go after two months.

You you forgot anything.

Usually the only one way you can capture those things if you want it to, um, uh, work in future in these type of areas, you practice and practice.

That's it. Okay, so what we are going to do now is, uh, okay, so this is a bit of scripts now,

this script, what it does, you can see there are a couple of packages.

You you have been introduced carrot. You have not been introduced.

Tidyverse Tidyverse been tidying up the stuffs a bit. Glam net glam net package will bar from elastic net optimization and all the things.

Okay, so there are three packages and what we are going to do.

Uh, we are going to do some exercise. For example ridge regression, lasso regression, elastic net push on the same data you have used.

Uh lm function okay. And then will check what is happening there.

Okay. I have uploaded the script okay I have uploaded the script in canvas.

Okay. You might want to download it. And trying to see one by one.

So you clear your R space so that all the functions are removed.

All the objects are removed. Maybe so that it should not interfere your new stuff.

Okay. So there is if you.

Okay. Maybe, um. Um. Lasso.

Ah, yeah. There one. So I don't know.

So if you go to the 5th March. Oh.

Uh, if you have a lasso art or txt. If you refreshing it, you will come.

Okay. If you refresh it, it will come because I thought I mean initially and your planet, but I don't how.

It also depends on how the dynamics look like. Okay, so, uh.

Yeah. Um, if we, like, make a new, um, notebook of unity, we can install the packages again.

No, those were installed. You don't have to install again. There are two you need to install.

What is glm? Net, and the other one is tidyverse.

Okay. Let's say other things should have. Once you type library R should give you that because caret is already installed.

So that should give you a kind of indication indication meaning you should not get any error message.

The package is not found message. You just go to the file.

So the beauty is that you are now able to see what happened. Your Boston housing data.

Same. Same data. Same outcome variable, but different approaches.

Thank. You.

Um. Yeah.

Oh, it was cool. Oh, cool.

Thank you. I. The.

I don't know. Some people.

What do we do after we do that? I think it's doable.

I think you need. Yeah.

Not having to you. I didn't do it like that.

Oh. You can see.

United. It's not that some of you.

Oh, yeah. You.

Thank you. Think it's.

But. Good thing.

Oh. Uh, yeah. Uh, okay.

This is good. Yeah. What do we do now?

Well, we have. If you drive and you run, you can compare.

Look at what is happening or how these memories live in from the machine.

And ultimately notice how the difference is in their in their creativity.

What they're. You run what they want to.

[INAUDIBLE] what is happening there? You see, there are a couple of things know on this one and that's that.

I never even asked one yet. Is there any so.

But I will explain you. And so the whole GP what these exit sites we want to compare how those metrics are working.

Sometimes you will see some of the features is regression coefficients are zero.

So for example if I um so let's say I'm, I'm kind of running few of them.

Um. Okay, right?

Okay. Okay, so, uh, I hope you, you were able to install some of the packages at the beginning and then load the packages.

So installing and loading is not same thing. Install first booting.

And then you need to just install once but you need to load multiple times okay.

The second thing is prepare preparing the data. In this particular occasion I mean we are calling as a as a Bostrom.

So this is the same data actually. Okay. Um, and then.

Uh, we call it data Boston package dot mass. So it means that these data are actually coming from my sis package.

Okay. Um, and then you can observe there is a Senate seat changed.

One, two, three. What if I write 4 or 5? That's fine.

Yeah, it's just a memory. It's just a memory space. Okay.

It doesn't matter at all.

I mean, but then each time I run in, if I use one, two, three, four in this particular screen, that will give you the same result.

Okay. Otherwise it will tend to give different results some extent.

The reason is each time your number of trainings are very different. Okay.

All right. And then I am using my training samples. And you are familiar with this now.

Okay. So what I'm doing. I am taking Boston MD.

B this is my my y. Yeah. And then I am operating this one.

This is called piping operate by the I and piping operator.

So which will coming from actually this particular package piping meaning that multiple different operations.

Okay. Multiple different operations it will allow. So if I, if I run it, it will create some sort of index in my, in my, um, in my ah.

And it will create you can see here from the data I am using the create data partition.

This is the same function you have used in Elm. Same function.

Only thing is that I am using in a combination with a piping operator.

And this is the way I mean you might find it difficult, but actually conceptually it first time it will be difficult of course,

but then if you start doing it many times, you will see this is the general procedure to, to to split the data.

Okay. Then I want you to differentiate between training data versus testing data or validation data.

So what I'm doing I am I am trained your data I made an object in this object I am.

I am creating. I'm passing a training dot samples training dot sample.

This one, this one, this guy, this particular one I am chopping.

Yeah. So you remember what is the positioning? I'm taking all the numbers positioning based on training dot samples.

Okay I can check also what is going to happen here. What how many data actually how many samples we are considering.

So if I type dime okay then you can see this one.

1407 14. It is exactly same as previous one.

Why? Because 80% obedience. Yeah, because 80% of the samples we are using it.

That's why we can be different. Because we have to absolutely sample can be different.

Yes that's right. Okay. And then and then and then I'm, I'm using as a kind of a, um, uh, testing.

And then I can check my test sample. How does it look like?

So if I, if I say test dot data and then you can see these are 9940.

Okay. Yeah. Okay. Great. So we have created training samples.

We have created testing samples and what else we need.

And then I am creating some sequence okay. In this there are many many different ways people use it.

Sometimes people use the cross validation. Sometimes in this particular occasion is I am not using lambda.

I am creating many, many, many possibilities of lambda.

Okay, in this case I am creating many possibilities of lambda so you can see how many sequence I am.

We ten to the power sequence negative three coming negative for length 100 I mean massive amount of my search space okay.

Sometimes people do cross validation. Sometimes people use it a very I mean it's like a um.

Checking all the possibilities. Okay. So you can. So in this particular example I am creating all the possibilities.

And I have created my lambda. But still my lambda is a sequence.

It's not a number. I still don't know what is my lambda. Okay.

It's just a sequence. Let's say I have created, uh, all the possibility, um, um, 0 to 1.

So there could be many, many different ways we can. We can write it. Okay.

Yeah. So, so this is my lambda, and then I am computing the reach.

Okay. I am computing the ridge regression. I am setting one, two, three, maybe four five in this case because I have this one previously.

And then I am I, I'm taking all the numbers. So reach is my func.

Is it my object I am training I am taking outcome variable, I am taking from from training data and I am using method glm.

Net. Okay, if you recall. Wait a minute.

Because in Danette, the last presentation slide, I have shown, you know,

it can be sliding if alpha value, lambda value, it can work both the direction.

That's why DL and net will do it okay. Dear God control the audit control I am controlling my training how I want it.

I want cross validation, I want it. Number is ten.

Okay, so I am passing it in previous example. What you have done TR control is equal to control.

And then you defined what is control. Same thing actually not different.

You just here I'm just writing like an extended form okay.

Do you want greet I am greeting now. I'm now I want you to kind of say, uh, trying to see what is my optimize.

Uh, lambda value expand dot greet alpha is equal to zero.

I want alpha should start from zero till lambda is equal to lambda.

What is lambda? Lambda is a big number here. So it will give me all the possible thing they are in in the model okay.

So if I do so if I do so I am computing here okay.

And then. So it will take some time.

Done. So it is computed. Okay. So.

And then finally you wanted to check the regression and the objective of this exercise.

I want you to check the regression coefficients. Do you see any kind of differences?

Do you see any kind of, uh, new stuff in this? So how we can do the coefficients.

So model coefficients. Um, and then if I, if I do so in this particular case and you can see what are the coefficients.

So you can, you can identify the intercept okay.

You can see all the features is getting some sort of a numbers here.

Okay. So but none of them you can see all of them.

I mean all the coefficients. They got some numbers.

No. For example you can see data X2X1.

This is 0.05 but still they are still in the model.

So we have applied penalty. We have stabilized the solution.

But all the things in the model what is.

And so you. The lambda value which one.

And the star that did this one. Uh no this is yeah.

The. No, no this is not the lambda. This is M this is coming from the element S is a kind of integration.

So this value is getting. So it is kind of a category of the values.

How do we know which lambda value. Uh no no no no no.

Lambda for lambda we can. Okay. So you want to get lambda right.

So we can see what is lambda. Okay.

Uh, Lambda was this. That seeing, is it?

Uh. It is. Okay. So you're right.

It is the limit of it. Okay. So you can see best tune. So if you type reach out I'd reach um.

Um, you can see best tune and that are all possible.

So if I type it, there are many. So you can see alpha is equal to zero okay.

And lambda is zero and alpha zero. Why. Because I'm forcing alpha zero here okay.

And if you don't put Alpha zero, if you don't put alpha zero here, you need to put some.

Maybe if you put one. Yeah yeah yeah. Okay.

Now if you see if you if you. Okay. Now let's go through a little bit more and then we make the predictions here.

Look. And then we make the predictions. So um, you compare um we.

With this prediction. So actually we have calculated prediction on the test data.

So predict test data reach. Okay. Um and then we can we can identify what are the model quality.

Okay. So RBC is a 4.6 R squared is 0.76.

So we can also estimate what are the model predictability in this case. When you're using like the different regressions.

Um, and then combining the coefficients. Yeah. You use the same lambda for the different.

No, because they are very different. If you lamda is changing, they would behave differently.

Okay. Like, for example, like, um, like in the last, like in this one, you'll like, you'll find, uh, this one here, um, in the next one,

the last one, like, um, the, the numbers like point, uh, 0 to 1 but shouldn't be used like, 0.61 for both of them.

And. No, because in this case, I'm, I'm, I deliberately want my models to use the, the ridge regression type of approach.

The region Lasso penalties would be different because they are two different mathematical models okay.

Yeah. Yeah. Okay.

Now if you if you replicate exactly same philosophy and I want you to tell me that until you get this point, what are the difference?

You see okay. So in this case we are using the lasso.

Very similar. Very similar. So only difference is alpha is equal to one.

And lambda you see only differences. Previously alpha was zero.

But alpha zero acting as a ridge alpha is equal to one will be acting as a loss.

Okay. In that case you are optimizing the lambda and I want you to check and tell me,

do you see any zero coefficients or something is not right in the coefficients one okay.

So once you get until this point, let me know. I'm fine tuning.

I mean the know of living up to. And.

So. Yeah, yeah.

Differences. Uh.

But we don't have. He wants to be with us so we can teach you to have now, because you have not been forced to leave.

Okay? Yeah, yeah. So what do we think of you?

Excuse for. All the more important.

Is there any sort of number of features on this compared to this?

Yeah. Individuals? Yeah. Yes. You are not trying to be different.

Yes. Yeah. It's Nobody can foresee what is happening there.

Let's say you Netflix. You can remember the name from being in your latest book.

Yes. What year? Yeah. You know, and then. And then and then master ask done.

And then something masculine and open and it's like, okay, I'm using for another one.

And you have another. Yeah. That's why so, so, so in, in the human being in that option.

Yeah. Then the decision and from the sequence also the sequence.

Yeah. So you might be hashing. So if I did not understand I'm not really competitive.

Please. Yeah. So what is a comment in the comment. And then you have an interview with us and see what is available.

Since that great question.

About when you will be released. But if thing age.

The features. Sign language is involved with regional.

And. What about the scientist?

Scientific. So you understand right when that people to be something that's convenient.

I think the unity is approaching. Let's take over the and see.

And that's how you begin to spark communication. Yeah.

So? Yeah. I'm here, and, uh, I'm not going to reach.

If you think of everything affecting your. So when you are doing operating with the light, you find your energy that's in your, um.

The sign is not changing. Your magnitude is changing.

Not okay. Your sign is not changing.

Your magnitude is changing. Okay. Thank you.

So. I don't think that.

So if I run the lasso model now. Yeah, if I run the lasso model, as you can see here, one of them is getting very heavily n0 x -16.

And if I go back in range no x also negative.

Also highest no highest value or highest negative value in that case.

Okay. So. So if you can look into the penalty so I can I can type Lizabeth tune and lambda.

Okay. So if I type it I'm getting 0.006 okay.

0.06 okay. It's a.

It's not a heavy penalty. Okay. It's not a heavy penalty comparing with one for example.

Okay. So and that is the reason you can see all the all the coefficients.

You can see here, but ideally if you do a heavy penalty.

Automatically some measurement should be kicked out, meaning that. Coefficient should be zero.

So how can we check it? We can check it. For example, if I just type here.

Um. For example, if I.

Let's say here. Lambda is equal to lambda.

So if I if I impose my lambda value let us say 0.9 I am forcing.

Now I'm giving a very heavy penalty. Okay.

And then because of heavy penalty you see what is happening here.

Okay. Not available or penalized. And.

Some. Some of them are kind of surviving.

Cassie surviving. NOx is gone now. Our aim is surviving.

But also it will be interesting to compare the signs.

If you look at the signs here, let's say else that negative.

This is also negative for rich. If I go up a bit this is also negative.

So messages there should not be any change in the sign.

There will be a change in the magnitude. Okay, so by forcing high penalty I am getting a sparse solution, meaning that I'm getting one,

two, three, four, five six and uh, yeah, including intercept only six measurements.

If I remove intercept, then I am getting only five of them out of 30.

Okay. Now that you have optimized in the previous version, in this version where I have use Lambda Lambda something some some numbers.

These data also realize this data is a double data, meaning there are 400.

Training samples and then 14 only. Probably we do not need to paralyze them.

And that's why when we optimize the penalty, we penalty value itself showing 0.06.

Very small penalty, meaning that probably you don't need to penalize in this case.

Okay. But then you can force the model to.

You can force the model having just you can justify saying that okay I don't want to see 13 I see I want to see few of them.

So same principle will be the elastic net as well.

So the principles remain same. Okay.

For example, when I was writing here, you eat very therapeutic stuff, but you can see now in the data how it is working a bit.

Maybe not 100%.

Of course, you need to digest the fact that how it is working, you have more and more questions, but you can see what is it is doing to your data.

So idea would be the data I have said.

I mean from the not last class that work class, you might want to apply using the similar framework and see what is happening.

And more and more experimentations with the data. Okay.

So if we continue, if we continue the this is something elastic net.

So if you do the elastic net you check what is happening in the elastic net.

So very similar. Very similar thing.

Only, only thing is that here I'm. I'm doing some cross validation here and then trying to predict those ones.

Okay and see what are the differences again. So people use it whenever they needed any smart solution.

They use these kind of methods, especially leisure and industry. This.

I think some. I want to thank everybody who.

Yeah. It's not healthy, expensive, and most of this has got no value.

Why do you think that this one is more of a concern?

Ample resources. We don't actually.

Um. Um. Um. Velocity. Not. Any content for which.

I love it. Yeah. You for. For you.

Think. It's a mind of its own.

Oh, that's how we do things. We need to figure out this is my life.

If you want to feel sexy, like.

Yeah, yeah. In. The past year.

We not. Thank.

You, John. Yes.

Just walk. And.

Suppose you can see that. Well, that's not possible.

You don't have this. I.

That word can be as long. As you like.

Yeah, but it's like you don't have to, like, you know, put.

On a smiley. Oh, we can't see.

I was going to see.

My cousin in the lights. He gratefully.

Now. He.

We need to go through 20. 18.

So. Your school?

Well. I can explain why they.

Took it out? Yes.

It was. Good.

He also is wholly responsible. Do you have anything?

Yeah. Anyone who.

Thank you know. Single two.

.69 divided. You think?

You can have final say. Thank you. But.

I don't know many people. In the military.

I think it will be awesome. And lastly.

If you. Simply because you can also.

Thank you so much for coming. Thank you so much.

Thank you. Are you looking for something that could.

Work for you inside?

Yeah. We come across this relatively.

Yeah. You know.

How? Can you keep these people feeling?

Oh, don't. Average on.

And what are we talking about? Just fine. Why don't we give you some color?

You. Because we would. Have to travel.

We have like three people something, so we don't have to.

Some of. Then we'll take a look at the next batch through some of them.

So we don't know. If you're going to be doing some meaningful next batch.

I think one thing I think, you know, maybe I can do it when I get.

Okay. So okay, if you compare all the models, which model is good?

Um. How do you know the elastic on the arm?

Good. Right. The arm missing? Yeah.

Yeah. It's got the lowest. Yeah. So usually. Yeah.

Probably not significant difference, right? Yes. Yeah. So.

But still again, if you wanted to compare multiple models.

He listed three. But if you compare 510 different ones, you wouldn't think which one is the lowest mean square.

Okay. Um. The thing.

I wanted to show you that how these models are working a bit.

I mean, what are the effect of penalty in the coefficients?

So as I said, if you give a heavy penalty they will be kicked out in this.

That's the case. Okay. Um, now if you can continue these practical, these these particular scripts and apply the data I have sent already okay.

Yeah. But then remember indicated one is is think about is it a classification or is it a regression model.

And what are the things you need to change. Okay. Okay.

So think about those. If you can apply there and you can get very sensible.

I mean if we get a good practice okay. So if everybody finished this particular exercise or not or Steve you are working on it.

You it. Okay. So so what we have what we have done so far.

So we started with regression. We like I told you there are some problems of multiple linear regression.

We can overcome them by penalization. Method. There are only three types of penalization.

Rate less elastic net that defer based on how you penalize them.

Okay. And I have introduced carrot package in R. We can use many different modeling strategies using the carrot.

And that's it actually so far what we have done. Okay. Now tell me so far what we have done.

Is it a supervised or unsupervised modeling strategy. I.

Supervised. What about other? What do you think? Yeah.

Supervised. And why do we have the why? Because you have the way.

Okay. Now question is what is happening in terms of the unsupervised learning.

Okay, so. So what will happen? What I mean.

Okay, so if you do that unsupervised. What is happening there?

So I and this is my last kind of decision. Okay.

And then and then I have to tell today so that we can do some exercise when you come next.

Okay. So probably when you come next meaning that, uh, next week I think either maybe Wednesday or Thursday,

the first thing we're going to do some exercise. Okay. So unsupervised learning, meaning we don't have any way we are looking for pattern in the data.

Okay. Pattern meaning that mostly either pattern in terms of your individuals for example where are the locations.

What is their particular income. Maybe they are similar age group or maybe they have a similar ethnic group.

These type of questions. Yeah. And one of the way of doing it clustering or binning okay.

Sometimes people call it as a clustering. Sometimes also people call it is it binning.

Okay. So clustering we classify every group attributes features that behave similarly over a set of samples.

Okay. So meaning that you will see um some of the groups.

Yeah. We call it as a guilt by association. Meaning they are kind of closely linked.

Okay. So for example, if you will, um. Somewhere in the meetings.

And you found your friend. What do you do? You would stay together or you will be fine.

I mean, unless you are not enemies. If you are not enemies.

If I say friends, then of you can proceed together. Okay, we call it guilt by association.

Guilt by our community. It's a it's a I mean, there are maybe some common property.

There may be some common property which make you to stay together.

Okay. Um, yeah. So, um, as I said, clustering, meaning us unsupervised classification information about grouping is unused or unknown.

Yeah, yeah. Okay. So, uh, what do we do?

Either you cluster your measurement or your cluster or your observations.

Okay. Sometimes what they do. Sometimes people do simultaneously.

Okay. Sometimes people do simultaneously at the same time.

Your measurements and your individuals. And this type of clustering is called as a BI clustering BI for two.

At the same time you are clustering two different thing. Okay.

All right. So really the clustering means you keep similar things together.

That's that's all it means. Okay.

So for example, if you if you if you think about this one, this band and this one probably for writing maybe they have some extent associated.

Or if I now tell you this one these may be more linked. This may be separate one.

So you see clustering also depends on the context. Yeah.

Okay, so. And in a very naive way, um.

Uh, I'm thinking about, um, we do clustering every every time.

Okay. You want to put things similar things together. For example, if you have a laptop, you you expect there will be models associated.

So they are kind of a cluster. Okay. Now if you look into this particular picture here you can you see it is black color.

You cannot really differentiate if there any class. The moment I make it color you tend to think you you think right.

You are thinking there are two books now. Yeah, yeah. So visualization plays a major role.

Again, we need to discuss a little bit more on the visual analytics, how you can project your, your, um.

You results in other things in the clustering context. Okay. So definition of the close it's key.

How close is close. How you define the closeness.

Okay. So for example in this particular uh example you can see you tend to think uh yeah three clusters three groups.

Now we've got one.

If you consider three groups, the definition of the cluster means there are two things are happening intra group distance and inter.

So they are done into intra and inter.

Okay. So what do you have in? You're in trouble. Distance would be low.

You in their group should be high. That's it. And that's all.

It's happening now. So we need group. Distance is small.

Between groups. Distance is more. Okay.

What about this figure? How many clusters?

How? You define two. How we make how we want to go to curves.

Yeah. So do you think. How should I measure it?

Should I measure linear or non-linear nonlinearly.

So clustering also can be nonlinear way of measuring. Okay, so distance plays a key role.

Sometimes distance is not enough. You need to apply playing.

Plain meaning that something, something plain in a, in a kind of a three dimensional space.

Some sometimes in this particular example, it's a non-linearly separable.

So you need to think about how we can plain or nonlinear way you can do it.

Okay. What about this. How many clusters. Two, three, three three.

21232.

Yeah, we did do that.

Okay. But. But what way? Well, these days, in between, you are thinking this idea of in the the.

Now this third. Yeah, they could go either.

And either way. Yeah. Okay. They can be dropped or they can be dropped.

Okay. Yeah, they can be dropped. Because if you are. If you're not paying any extra cost on those thing.

Cost meaning that I mean, for example, if you are developing some strategy, probably one of them could be these days, right.

So you need to consider something.

So that we make it make a um, not very homogeneous cluster but not homogeneous or heterogeneous cluster in the case.

So what I'm trying to tell you. Clustering. Not sometimes obvious.

I mean, you see, you think obvious, but don't think all of these people are going to get like this.

It's very, very unlikely. Very, very unlikely.

It is not happening in the real you. Okay, so you can think you need to think about all sort of things.

What is happening there? Okay. Okay. So distance, I think you I mean, I just tell you that I mean, distance is the basis.

Okay. Now the question is what type of distance equate what type of algorithm.

So distance is the key in clustering. So what type of distance we are talking about.

We can talk about many different distances okay okay.

Euclidean distance Manhattan distance. This information this distance cosine distance and many other non-linear distance

I mean many sense not here but you can think about these are some examples.

Okay. Uh, these are all examples. Angular distance squared. There are many, many ways we can use it.

Okay. Now question is, if you use different types of distances, does it change your result?

Answer is yes. Answer is it?

So the question is what is the right way? There is no right or wrong way unless and until you convince that you have used.

So that's why in clustering, people do use one more than one methodology.

Um. And this kind of clustering also called soft identification problem.

And sometimes each method has their own way of deriving subtypes.

Okay, so let's say you have x y z method. X method is telling three clusters.

Y method is telling four clusters. Z method is telling five cluster what to do with it.

Possibility. That's fine. You know what I mean?

Make a decision. You can not. You can. Because you I mean, we.

And a lot of further downstream work you have to do so if you are something you can do on stream.

So you cannot do it. So what to do? Cases? Look at the data and see involved.

That's one option. What else? What else?

What was the hardest one? I don't know what what I. This is.

Oh, I just want five. And what do you want with your argument? Do you leave other guys alone?

Like what you see in food desert because they don't produce. If I cluster.

So they'd be left alone. Or the other way.

Some of you can say, oh, I cannot, I cannot accommodate you. I am constantly looking for I you fully five too much.

Yeah. My morning glory to him because it is like you, I support you.

So okay. So let's go to. Uh, okay.

You know what you want. You want to take some video of the whole people? People?

So what people do. People make a consensus decision.

Not to disappoint everyone. So I ask you.

I ask you to limit the resentment and then take some sort of a voting type of criteria and make a consensus decision.

You see what I mean? So otherwise, what people would say. People say, oh, you are too much.

I mean, you know, I mean, five clusters I cannot accommodate or you say, okay, you are too low.

I am not going to consider. Now rather these we can we can make this a bit more consensus along those lines okay.

All right. Okay. So, uh, which distance to measure. Okay.

Um, there are again there are different ways we can do it.

Um, um, if people use it, Manhattan people use it by default, sometimes Euclidean one, which is very easy to measure.

Okay. So these are the two ones. People use it. Uh, but remember before you do clustering you need to normalize your data.

Meaning standardize the data, mean subtraction, divide by standard deviation or some kind of a normalization so that you can compare.

Otherwise the data will be biased. Okay.

So there are different algorithms. There are different algorithms.

For example, um, hierarchical clustering. There are um, um the and measure the distances okay, based on the distance.

And they will tell you, um, how many possible clusters in your data.

There are others partitioning. So they automatically partition your data.

For example k means k means meaning that data is divided into maybe two, three, four different clusters.

And you need to justify why you have used two, 3 or 4 different clusters.

Okay. So and then the other one is the self-organizing map.

Self-Organizing map is more unbiased. For example, more machine learning is given.

For example, if you are it's like, uh, if you are playing with small balls, you are throwing balls in the in a flow.

Some blocks are automatically organized themselves. So these are impossible.

So that's why self-organization self-organizing map okay.

And we will touch upon couple of them. Not all of them. Yeah. Okay.

So um so let's talk about hierarchical clustering.

Um, and then uh, in this hierarchical clustering what is happening.

It will produce a dendrogram. Okay. So I will just try to explain what is the problem of mixing a and B.

And be closely linked. I can I can connect them like this.

So this is my network. Okay and be connected.

So some sort of small distances. Okay. But I am saying A and B this dissimilar with c.

So I put like this. Okay, so maybe be in a more close then.

See? Nope. Okay. Well, I'll show you a figure in a moment.

Okay. For example here. Okay. So here you can see different color.

Um, and you will see some animation here. I mean I think it is very.

So let's say 15, there are 15 data points. How many cluster 15 clusters leave us 15 data point each.

Data point acting as an individual clusters okay. So let's say I am putting these two together first okay.

So I am putting these two together. You can see that there is a development in the dendrogram there.

No. So I'm saying same message different way representation okay.

Next this one. You see, I am changing my my my keyboard and it is producing, but it should be 1 to 1 relationship.

Okay. And then maybe this one next. You see what is happening?

Okay. Yeah.

So I built up. I built up my my my kind of.

So how many left? And then entire dataframe.

Which is? Doesn't make sense, of course, but what I'm saying that 15 to 1.

So initially it was a 15 one. But then you see. So the question is where do we stop?

You need to fix your stopping criteria. You see what I mean. So here, you know, uh, in this particular one,

you see the looks like t should be the ideal one based on the pictures because they are inter a distance versus inter distance relationship.

But if, if I draw this one okay then you should also see here as well in terms of the dendrogram the distances how it is propagating the distances.

So these may be the one cluster. This one. This one looks nice and also looks like logical you know okay.

But if you keep on doing it you don't stop the algorithm.

It will tell you there is one cluster. One cluster, meaning everything together.

Yeah. So so that's what it is happening. So originally it is like this okay.

Are you getting how the things are propagating actually in a way. All right. So so here there are a couple of concepts of distance.

So for example you can see there are there are two different data right.

And beacon immediately. And these two are smallest distance between two classes.

And even the smallest network is a single linkage.

Okay if it is a farmer. There is a larger distance and sometimes people are the average distance, which is always everyone's distance.

And it's okay. So in in in your work it doesn't matter.

You might want to take the correlation based distance and or Manhattan based distance or equity and distance.

So this you know you can choose any one of them. Okay.

So sometimes also people I don't know if you have seen this type of graph.

Yeah. Have you seen this type of put up this type of graph for hitman? Again.

He. You can see. Yeah. This type of graph of heatmap.

It looks like each pixel red. Yeah.

Red. Red meaning high value. And then the green means low value.

Okay. And what else it says? You says you can see all the red colors are together.

So maybe there are some classic. And these are the data from now.

So you can see here they are. Looks like there are different clusters. Um, definitely two clusters maybe.

But then within each of the color there might be also cluster of clusters.

Now within the cluster that might be fine. You might find some sort of very close associations, uh, across uh, those data points.

Okay. All right. Um, and then, as I said, there are many different ways of doing it.

Uh, partitioning based method, partitioning, this method,

they kind of force you data to make multiple different classes, which is not really based on.

Distances, but they are based on. Okay. They are. They will force you data.

So for example K-means clustering, if you put K to go to file your data will be any way divided into fine.

Okay. So people tend to ask your question how will you optimize your number of clusters.

Okay. How you optimize number, of course, but there are different ways we can make. There are, I think you don't see it.

There are different criteria we can we can use to tell, um, how many clusters are optimum for given.

Um, given that it okay. So we'll cover some extent and then and maybe ah this one Bayesian partitioning in our model.

So there are many. This field is like. Many things are there.

So. But my intention is to give you an idea. And once your, um, challenge data or your assignment data will be released,

some of the questions would be you need to apply the unsupervised way of doing the clustering as well.

Okay. Um, I suppose to technical, but then I'll.

I'll skip the practical for now, but I will, um, explain what is this practical is about.

So in this practical, you will be given some data and you need to cluster those data sets in multiple different clusters.

And you need to justify why those clusters look like you need to visualize those clusters.

And then and then you need to see what is, uh, within the data,

how many clusters and what are the parameters actually making those, uh, differences in the cluster?

Okay. Questions? Um. Thank you.

Yeah. Um. No. Thank you.

He's going to do this? Yeah. You want?

We've got lots of room, so we.

So we'll get used to it once. We can use all of them.

All the rest. And then these one. So it's not.

That's the one we don't know with distance are going for. Yeah.

Okay. Questions? Any questions? Over. No.

Okay. So. Do you want to continue the practical, or do you want to do in the next class, or what is your thoughts.

Okay. Okay. Okay. Um, but, um, a couple of things.

I mean, I think, I think it's a very as you can see, I mean, once you do, I mean, once you start doing it, it makes more and more sense.

Yeah. Um, so for the same data, I, I would think of, I mean, I'll show you what are the scripts, how does it look like?

But then it would be ideal if you can apply the supervised principles.

The data I have set it up. Okay. So the the the data.

Yeah. Yeah. The data I think I think the 2000 people where you would start with data.

Yeah. Yeah I think I can't remember we did I send but I think something I announcement if you look

into the old announcements which was what by ourselves uh why you can choose it anyway.

Yeah. You can choose your why. It's just a matter of getting acquainted with how the model is working.

And idea would be the same principle. You should apply for your assignment.

Your assignment will, I think will be released soon.

Yeah. So, you know, I mean, assignment is that I ended up finishing and these things were not done that I was not, you know, entirely.

Yeah. Um.

Okay. Yeah. I've been losing my life in the kitchen.

So I'm just checking what is we need to say.

Yeah. Yeah. So I think we have we have a session next week 12.

So in this session we are going to discuss about more and more.

Um, more and more of the clustering methodologies practicals.

And then what I would like to talk about decision based algorithms.

So if you fixed on one data you can try yourself the same data for multiple different methods.

Data is not changing. Your method is changing. So you can compare.

And then what is happening those ones. Okay. And side by side probably I will also tell you there are a couple of things I have not told.

Um, some specific aspect like how do you read Excel file in R.

Yeah, these things I haven't told. So I mean I plan to talk about a little bit on those side.

Okay. All right. So in that case, maybe it is a bit early, but uh, probably after that, you know, it, it's a quite a lot of things at the same time.

But I think you need to digest. So you have time. Um, yeah. Um, we can we can discuss for the next week if.

Yeah. You.

Right. You bring that up.

Do I know who you are? I hope my.

100,000. Of the.

Who are I? I don't know.

Well, gravity. Like, okay.

Every meeting was awesome. Just. We have some. People.

Of. Um.

The. Also, you can get a feeling like this.

So. You know. I think those other things are.

So. So this right?

Yeah. The one work. Like.

That right? I don't know.

I don't. Who?

I do. Only the people who.

I think you can. Thank you.

So would. Nominee.

Hoping to become. The from.

Am. You can.

You can go to community. I.

Know. Mhm.

Mhm. No, no.

This time. Yes, you. Over.

You know, like you know. We.

I'm not going. You know.

I was in the naval. You know, there are only people who know so much.

My when someone who. Only people like you not eating water and all know that we live in no matter what we do from the.

But then you. What do you.

Oh oh. So.

Let me get you there. Originally recorded in Bismarck and Only I Go On.

Thank you for having me do that.

Yeah. Absolutely not. No no, no. Yeah, but I can get that.

Yeah, yeah. But it doesn't work.

But I'm going back to. It just about, you know, yo yo yo.

Welcome to the. We are making more.

But if you want to live in a. This is the model that is working to to to.

Really, dear. You know me, brother.

Many of them. And remember.

The. Deepening deadlock and 70,000 people hope unity might not involve any longer and from.

The ground running one game at a time.

I think people love that they win some. Then some 70,000 people stood up for the ban coming in.

People I don't know about you. I want to confirm that the father of.

Until we are 53 years later, granddaughter and son rugby and play a video that you remember enjoying watching some.

Of the things you know, sometimes winning isn't about coming forward.

It's about. That's the lava lake.

And that this is your new Supreme leader speaking.

Well, I warned that this would happen, and he just kept talking to us like we couldn't.

Maduro has done that. Anyway, enjoy your new freedom, people.

We're going to have bikini body, all you can eat, buffet dancing, the country music and singing karaoke all night long.

We're going to have the best delicious Margaritaville. Effective on a Cuban.

If you're a woman, you can finally take off that ridiculous bed and you know you're going to be smart and beautiful and wear whatever you want.

Under my review, you can now vote as long as you vote Republican.

If you think about it, you could only vote Republican because there will be no Democrat voting for anything.

Like not yet. That's the lava lake business.

This is. Until.

We might look for income. We're not.

Rupert. Okay.

Okay okay okay. Okay, okay.

Okay okay okay. Other dead.

Smaller. Than. What makes The Godfather a mafia if not for.

Every frame of the body. Every time you do something.

Helping the. Family.

Oh, he was trying to make me fall into the pumpkin soup.

You know nothing. About fun.

Yeah, but more than that, I don't him.

That's why. The Godfather couldn't give more than something in the menu.

What was the Godfather in that? Oh.

Five. Right. I thought you were having a bad time.

I mean, you know. Pray for your family.

Thank you, Lord, for everything that has happened.

Yeah that's right, that's right. First of all, you're all part of the father side, right?

Do you have a family? What do you think is going on? I think.

I'm gonna get that one. Um.

Thank God. Wasn't go. Yeah. Okay.

I'm ready. Go. Okay. Medium with.

What does this mean? But if all of my.

I open. Go go go go.

But. But you know you can't.

I know, I know, we have to be together.

I know, Uh uh uh.

You know, maybe some. How about interpretation?

For example, you. You know, uh uh, you know.

And then another minute later, he never picked up the.

I know we will never be together. A then.

And uh uh uh uh uh.

You may. How do you think you're going to do?

And you love it. Yeah. Yeah, yeah.

But. You know.

And the. And ultimately, you can never have a.

I know we will never. Older than.

I'm going to die. You.

Okay. Someone just like you.

I know we will never be together in doing anything.

I mean, do you? And a.

Maybe the me. And I in a photo booth.

Making it up by bringing you here.

How can I create more? Kind of. Degree of indifference.

Reasonable length of matter.

Are not a model. We want.

We go for something else. On day.

You realize you, you know, maybe to make, uh.

Right? I mean, let me just cut.

You know everything about my life, you know? You know.

And you. If.

The. A purple.

So. Right.

Thing, unlike the. You.

Two. Only thing.

Something that I have no problem with.

Okay. Yeah. You got. Hear that? Okay.

Very I don't know if this is the camera or, you know, depending.

You love Jurassic Park three.

I don't want to talk, but I do.

We're not in love. I prefer.

Road. Oh.

I don't. I.

There. He called me.

With a different name. Oh.

I was expecting. I'm probably.

Over. The phone.

The. Yesterday.

Certain people come. Well.

Mhm. All right.

Oh, yeah. Yeah.

All right. No.

Really known faces, but. But.

Other. That's enough.

Well. Huh?

Uh. Okay.

You know, uh. The.

I don't know what I'm talking about. I don't no.

But. By the way, the philosopher who.

