[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
One of the people who was involved in the boiler room.

Some of. Which.

You didn't think? Such beautiful people.

I wish I. Sure.

Oh, that should be. He.

Oh. Thank you.

Oh. Thank you. Jesus. Okay. You know.

In the moment. I need you to hold on.

At this point, you know. In 2018.

Boogie woogie and be. And since.

Uh. Skin.

You know. I. Put on.

You know. That's. They say okay.

And then. 0902.

104165. Thank.

All right, uh, we have time to do it. So we will continue from the last session.

Um, so we started last week. Uh, some of the models.

Yeah. So, um, we have seen from the statistical model for high dimensional statistics, meaning if you have.

Why data? How we can take into account.

These data, trying to identify important measurements from those data.

So we have discussed three different regression methods.

What are those? That something must be okay.

Elastic band? Yeah. What are the properties? So nothing now.

So, um, eliminates features based on pending, which is not implemented for feature advanced because it's the, um, combination of both.

Okay. So you see how many that are here?

Let's do a little hack on phones. I wouldn't even use this book.

One who we know them. Huh?

Okay. He again.

How many boundaries you have? He's been. Oh.

Okay. There are two penalties. And let's take maybe the combination of it and that's it.

That's one visualization. Yeah. All right.

Um, and how do you optimize the lambdas? Uh, penalty parameters for hyper parameters.

Thank you. Invigorating you already.

So I'm looking for someone else. And, uh.

Yeah. So what is the definition of hyperparameter?

What is the definition of Heisenberg? Thank you.

All right. So hyper parameter means the parameter which is x1.

Okay. Meaning for example if you have a ten measurements these are called parameters.

Each of the models they have some associated parameter.

And we have to optimize them. And those parameters are usually called hyper parameter.

Hyper means more and it depends on which method you are using.

If you are using ridge regression you might have one. If you use the so maybe one if you have random forest, maybe two.

So it depends on the method. Okay. Um.

So what? Those.

Those methods are usually called regularization method, or sometimes because we are applying penalty,

though they are also called as a penalty parameter or penalty.

Methods. Penultimate regression. Yeah okay. And then we move into uh, little bit more uh, we will move into um, topic in unsupervised learning.

So what do you mean by unsupervised learning? You.

So when I say unsupervised learning, what does it mean? No one.

No one. No way. Okay. So unsupervised, meaning that there is no initial community.

Okay. We want to understand the pattern in the data. We want to understand what are the subpopulations.

Maybe in that case or what are the structure within the measurements.

So it might possible that some of the measurements are very heavily linked.

Okay. We want to capture them as well. Yeah. So how many types of clustering method we have discussed.

So clustering is one of them. Right. So clustering meaning that we looking to um the data and then trying to understand different um um uh structure.

So in last class how many clustering method I have this.

And then next question would be what are those? You know, until.

So. Why don't you cluster? Well, what does it mean?

I mean, you don't need to have it in last year's class for definition of that.

If I say something is clustered together, what does it mean to you?

If I said they are kind of together, what does it mean for a course together?

But what if the principal. They have something in common, so there might be some common thing they have together.

For example, maybe, um, uh, the papers and pens, they might be together because people use bands to write a paper or something like that.

Yeah. Okay. So, uh, the definition of the cluster, meaning that similar things would be together, dissimilar things will be for a.

So when we say similar things will be together. We need a measurement.

We need to say how we are defining how close is close.

Okay. So one of the ways of doing it measuring the distances.

So if you take two data points and you measure the distance and based on the distance we can say how close, how big or how far they are.

Okay. So and also this is just one way of doing it.

You can also use distribution. No, I mean, distance is one way of measuring.

If I use the distribution, that could also be one of the way to do that.

Meaning that we are capturing the distribution of the data together, or therefore part.

Meaning that if you if you say some of them are densely populated,

meaning that you can see maybe they're that they're similar common thing in together.

Okay. So we have discussed many, many things. Hierarchical clustering.

Yeah. We have discussed how hierarchical clustering look like.

You and we can use some kind of a um.

Some kind of a distance here. Okay. It could be correlation. This distance.

It could be Manhattan distance. It could be Euclidean distance. So there could be many different distances in this case.

Yeah. So hierarchical clustering is as name says based on hierarchy,

meaning that if they are similar they will they will go fast if they get aggressive one like if they find one of the data point is close,

they would they would make it as one. And then they will go one by one iteratively.

Yes. Okay. All right. So.

So today what we are going to do, we are going to extend this type of algorithms a little bit more.

So machine learning models we can as we have discussed or I dislike communications.

What I see we can classify broadly in four different parameters.

The first one I have already talked about. Yeah. The first one, you have done the exercise last week.

So um, so so I think this is we have covered today we'll be mostly focusing on um, uh, these abstract.

Okay. And then there will be some other methodology like SVM kernel, this method.

And then we'll go. Maybe I'll see them from used to be, maybe I would just introduce the basics of neural network and maybe I'll skip that.

Okay I'll pick some of in here and then maybe solve them in.

Because neural net is very, very important in terms of many different domains.

If you don't know neural network you cannot understand how sequence driven model is working.

Okay. You cannot understand how deep learning model works. So there is a dependency about all those methodologies.

Okay. All right. So so let's talk about, um, a little bit, uh, on the decision tree and random forest.

Okay. So one is a decision tree. What does it mean?

When I say decision. Okay. Decision tree.

So one of the first things you contribute might be actually coming from a hierarchical or something you are making.

Let's say you can say and and you want to make some, some kind of an indicator of defaulter versus non non default.

Something like this okay. So ideally you are looking at some sort of a decision node.

And these are kind of okay. Let's say this is this is the point you are starting and making a decision.

And something like this each time. Maybe you can you can you can make a decision.

And then based on that you can classify some kind of your structure so that, that that's the basis of, of the decision tree.

Okay. And then we will go into the next level after some time.

Uh random forest approach. Okay. So, so if you, if you ask what is actually the basis of decision tree.

Um, so. Structurally, there will be three things.

Okay, so why do we say three in the context of, uh, machine learning settings?

There will be three things. Number one, you need to be defining the nodes.

Okay. So um and the second is branches.

Okay. And then and then third one is in the leaves.

Okay. So the node what does it mean. Nodes mean that the identity of the splitting feature for and for example you

are making or algorithm is making some decision in this particular point.

Is it going to be part of the decision or not decision. Okay.

So these type of criteria based on some mathematical formulations.

Is way to do, and there would be some initialization,

meaning the algorithm will start and also there will be stopping criteria when we want them to stop.

Okay. And this process will go on and listen until we are telling them to stop.

Okay, again, how we are telling algorithm to stop based on some mathematical formulation based on.

For example, if you um. Um, I mean, I think I have an example.

I'll give you in, in a moment. Um, it could be the, the, the binary as well.

Um, um, credit card defaulter or non defaulter.

That could be one of the thing that also could be another approach.

So if it is a default or non default ah think about this is a classification type of thing.

Know okay. So recognize which are the models can be used for classification which are the models cannot be used for classification okay.

So these are the important points you will be encountering in next.

Uh maybe in few minutes okay. So the branches the branches depart from the node and identity to the different subset,

uh, subset of the data, um, which is produced by the partitioning operation.

So we are in this particular case, for example, I think I have an example in the, in the in the next one.

So maybe I'll go to the next one here. So for example, as you can see you had the starting of your algorithm.

So it's like a kind of a structure starting of a algorithm.

You you kind of pick up some rule based on some rule.

You, you had a two different either yes or no.

And then this part is happy about the decision, meaning that you got the leaf.

You cannot split further. Okay. Then for example here you you've set up some rules and then it is a binary split.

And then here it is going century. It doesn't go beyond. And then it rule number three.

Number three also uh what the branches now leave and leave.

So in each of the algorithm is looking for the leaf. Leaf means that it cannot go further in the decision maker.

Okay. I'm trying to project meaning as simple as possible. But but it's it's very complex in in nature.

Okay. So. What is happening.

The route contains all the samples, for example all the individuals, for example 1000, 10,000.

Whatever data in your yeah, you are investigating.

All of them will be there. And then subsequently those will classify based on the rules.

Okay, and it will keep on doing it unless and until it find a pure leaf and then it stops.

Okay. So as you can see here, there are different rules.

But then the algorithm doesn't go below. And then this would be a decision.

Okay. Um, okay, I think I think I have one example.

Um, um. In this example I am trying to identify the species.

So for example here there are many different species elephants and other things.

So what do we do? We kind of say let's say we are we are giving them some rules now okay.

Let us say first question meaning rule. We are asking the color gray.

So I am asking algorithm. You you separate them based on the color.

So you think about your first rule. Is your measurement right.

This is your measurement of the of of the species here okay.

So some of them know some of them. Yes. So no go one side.

Yes. One other side. Okay. Then you put another rule.

If it is a mass is more than 2000 kilos or something, or maybe 1000, or you generate your own rule.

Okay, so then your answer could be yes or no. Okay.

Then here neck is 1.5m or one metre two metres. So this is your measurement.

You are telling okay yes or no. So if it is a yes. And then.

Then it goes further so you can see. You started with and you started with all your species and you are trying to classify the species.

Okay. Um, in the right hand side also you can classify further down.

Okay, so you are asking masses more than 2000 or not and then say yes or no.

And then finally can you see there is a distinct features.

Can you see in the leaf? There are distinct features. So that is called the Pope.

Actually, purely in the sense that I mean, you cannot classify.

Maybe you can classify further, but if your objective is different, my objective is I want to separate the species.

Okay, so this is a very simple way of projecting, but, uh, I think you realize this is not very simple in terms of mathematical foundations.

Yeah, but the question is how do we develop those rules?

Okay. Those rules sometimes is coming as a random. So random subsampling and other things algorithm will decide accordingly.

Okay. And the question is, can you impose even though you can probably use them.

You actually. So mask could be one of the measurements in this case.

Okay. Yeah it would be the next idea could be color.

I also could be you can maybe they have a long time short these type of criteria you can impose.

Okay. So this is a very kind of a simplistic way of projecting the tree.

Decision tree each time. The binary splitting. No.

Each time I'm splitting the tree is a binary. So two branches.

Not more than that. Yeah. Okay.

So, um. Okay.

So here. I mean, in mathematically, uh, we, we call it, um, how we can split, um,

and we split based on the nodes, based on the different mathematical function.

Here we use entropy. Sometimes we use Gini index.

Uh, sometimes we use information gain.

So these are, these are the terminologies you will be encountering if you have, um, started working on the decision tree.

Okay. So you don't have to go too much in detail, but I just telling you, for you, um, kind of a knowledge that,

um, uh, it is not a random, but it is a very complex mathematical function is associated with it.

Okay. Um, and then and then stopping criteria, meaning that you cannot split further, meaning that once you develop some models,

in that case, um, uh, maybe it cannot be mathematically explained and it will stop in that particular moment.

Okay. Um, and then one of the property is on pruned trees.

They have a low bias and they have a high variance.

So I think this is one of the very important property you should keep in mind.

Sometimes people ask you can go later. We would actually ask you okay.

If you have you part about tell us what is the difference between the regularization method in lasso context and decision tree how they behave.

So. The regularization methods.

They are kind of a high bias, low variance.

This is opposite. Okay. But here it is.

High variance. Low bias. We are not. Why low bias.

Because we are not giving any. We are not giving any penalty okay.

We are not giving any penalty without penalty. Um.

Uh, we. So this is a low bias and high variance.

The variance is coming from the multiple splitting criterias. Okay.

So this is usually bias and variance. These are the two things always always associated with any type of model.

Okay. Okay. So this is another example.

Okay. Maybe this is you can figure out figure out yourself.

So these are the Spielberg movies. And there is a year running time and and uh, different title.

And based on that the data based on these data, you should predict if this is Spielberg movie or not.

Okay, so this is a homework for you. You can think about you do not need any.

Any kind of mathematical thing. You just need how them, you know, um, that the system is working.

So for example, here, um, there are all the movies are associated.

So all the samples. Yes. No. Uh, are time some kind of running time and then and then you should classify and then you see which one is what movies.

So it's a very simple way example, but exactly same way the decision tree works.

Okay. So so how many trees we are considering in decision Tree.

Only one. Only one. Remember? So decision tree is only one tree.

Now people thought about it and people said, okay, can we can we develop multiple different trees?

And then okay then fine. If you, if you had a multiple trees, um, so it becomes a forest.

Okay. Can we get multiple forest? Yes. So probably we can do all these things.

And that's how people thought about Random forest.

Okay, so in the colleges. Yes. Okay, so so random forest is is a kind of in, um.

Um, it is developed from the decision tree based principles. Now, uh, there is a reason why it is called random.

Okay. There is a there is a reason there is a. I will come back to that.

Why it is called random. Uh, but I think you understood why it is called forest because this is not a one single tree.

Multiple trees. In fact, we can optimize.

How many trees are enough to make a forest. If you ask this question again, this is the optimization problem.

Do you use 500 trees? 1000 trees to 2000, I'm told you.

Okay, so that need to be optimized and try. How many trees are good for you forest.

Okay. So m t number of trees.

This is a hyperparameter in random forest because this is the extra parameter associated with your modeling technique.

Okay. All right, so why random forest?

I mean, Elmo Forest is one of the methods people are using. Hey, doesn't matter.

Finance, make money, take the qualities.

This is one of the method people use. Heavy. Okay.

If you look into the quantitative finance or something nowadays, or maybe some some very high profile journals, you cannot miss that.

Okay, so um, there are many properties. These are very, very theoretical thing.

Um, as, as you can use random forest for classification or regression doesn't matter.

It can handle many, many different features at the same time. Okay.

It can use as a binary classes or multi different classes, meaning that um, uh,

when I say binary class versus multi-class in a and then I mean this in the, in the y in the, in the response variable.

Okay. So not like a yes or no, but also maybe yes.

No, maybe different classes it can use at the same time. It one of the addition is that it can incorporate the interactions.

So you remember in many of your basic statistics you use a linear model and you keep that interaction model explicitly.

You know for example x one plus x two. So for example if I write a linear model here.

Yeah. So for example is y is equal to beta naught.

You don't want x one beta 2X2 plus beta one beta two.

Uh maybe this is my beta three.

Which three is a combination of my x one dot XX2 maybe.

You see. So I'm explicitly mentioning and plus my the in some interview.

So in this case I'm putting it right these interactions myself.

But random forest qualitatively check all possible interactions.

So that's why it becomes very powerful. Variable importance in estimate.

Now what is variable importance. Meaning that let's say you see working with 200 measurements and out of 200 measurement,

you wanted to prioritize which of the measurements or variables would be important.

Yeah. So it will give you ranking. Meaning it will give you a ranking so we can get something like this, uh, in Y-axis.

So, importance. Okay. And then there is some um, some criteria, some feature.

So maybe these feature let's say let's say feature number ten.

Okay. This is important. Most important second most important.

And then we get some ranking like this. So meaning we can take maybe a few of them in the top.

These are important features. Okay.

So they automatically give you some. Some variable importance.

Okay. One of the most important points out of many of them internal cross validation.

So I have to discuss about what does it mean in random correspondence.

No internal cross validation. Meaning the random forest by default will do some kind of internal cross validation.

What does it mean? So next let's say you are talking about 100 100 observations.

Okay. You have an observation or you have a sample. Sometimes you have an object or individuals.

See now what random forest is going to pass from them.

By default it will take two thirds of the sample.

Two thirds of the sample will be working as a training sample.

One third. It will not be used for training will be tested.

And we don't have to do it explicitly. Remember in the last, last class you divided data.

You remember 80% to 80%, 60%, 40%.

Random forest will do automatically. Okay.

And that's one of the powerful that makes Random Forests super powerful and competitive with other methodological, um, innovations.

Okay. So two thirds of the, the the the data they think got here I'm talking about the measurements.

When you take into account as a training sample one third will be testing samples and it will be randomly done.

You don't know which samples are in training. You don't know which important testing. They will do it iteratively and randomly.

Because these these things are happening at random.

That's why it is called Random Forest. The samples are not.

You cannot capture the samples. There are a lot of randomness are happening in this methodology.

Okay. How do you feel with that?

Thank you. We'll see. You know what we did last time?

It is more complex than that. It is internally, we can will do it some external validation but within you feel also divided.

If you also divided okay data within the training, it will do it iteratively.

So meaning that it is very difficult to capture that we can capture. We can.

We can estimate how many has gone for training, but it is not putting seats.

It could be one of the week, but we need to give some extra, extra script or extra things to, uh, to to capture that.

We can't use the same data again for the same thing that we did last time.

If you can't see if that said that if you put the bullets down for training and testing one.

So, so so remember the last exercise you have done, you have you have divided enforced it.

Right. We can force here as well. But we did training if you do if you do 80% training you have done it.

So this is what external speak right. But then when you use random forest training for 80 we did 80.

It will do again. Other one. So it's kind of investing the stuff a bit.

Okay, so that makes Randomforest very, very powerful.

Also a bit complex as well. Yeah. Okay.

So because it is a combination of multiple different trees, not a single tree, people call it.

Is it an ensemble method. And simple method and ensemble method, meaning that each is a combination of multiple different trees,

so results will be aggregated based on the multiple tree performance.

Some tree will be performing well. They will be contributing to the phenotype.

Contributing to your outcome variable in this case, maybe binary, or maybe multi-class or with regression.

Some of them will not contribute and will be calling as a weak tree.

Okay. And that's the beauty. So you grow 500 different things.

Some of them will be very good. Some of them will not be good. But on overall they are performing good.

So aggregation and sampling together and the results will be aggregated together.

Okay, so introduce two form of randomness random in training sets random variable selection in each node.

Okay, so here is one randomness one third versus two third two third will be training, one third will be testing and then splitting right.

You remember there isn't pretty criteria yet. And it is splitting.

So. Here in Random Forest there will be multiple trees like these.

Okay, here many, many different trees will be grown. So these are trees.

These are my binary things. And many of the binary trees will be grown.

Um, and then each of the tree node, they will produce some rules.

Now don't remember the example I have given the rules, but these rules are also random.

Okay. So there are two sets of randomness. So interview question how many why it is called Random Forest.

And and tell us about what type of randomness is happening in Random Forest.

Okay. So, um, so yeah. And then as a consequence, what is going to happen is that, um, individuals create a weak learner,

meaning that if you are, let's say you have a 500 trees, you have grown okay.

You have grown 500 and is equal to one, 200, 500.

Some of as I say, some of them will be weak. Some of them will be strong.

Okay. So bye bye bye. Uh, producing all the trees.

It is happening like a low bit. Low bias, low correlation, high variance.

Meaning that those trees sometimes are not linked.

They are not correlated. Meaning these. These can be acting as an individual.

Three. This can be individual one. Another one. So they are not correlated.

Okay. They are not correlated. And that's how they are low bias.

They are there. They are not much bias in indicates high variance because one be very good, another very high one either be very bad.

So variance is changing a lot. But if you combine overall overall will be good.

And that's how it is. It is behaving okay.

So averaging um uh over the trees retain the low bias and reduce the variances bagging bootstrap aggregation.

And the process is called bagging. We call it is a bagging and boosting criteria.

That's how they kind of learn from the trees. I'll give you the give one example here.

For example this one okay. So if you see here this is your complete data 123456.

Let's say you have a ten individuals and you have marked them 1 to 10 and training set you have randomly.

Right. So one uh one is here. Some of the ones are used multiple times in training.

So replacement is allowed. Replacement is allowed.

You can use one sample multiple times. That's allowed. We can control how much replacement we want as well.

Do you want more? Do we want less? Okay. That is allowed. Um.

Uh, here. You don't see three. So. Out of bag. Meaning?

Out of bag. Meaning that that's your test set. Okay.

So it's just in nomenclature here. Okay. Auto back means.

Uh, in this case, the testing. Um, so that could be one one of the one of the trees.

Yeah. As you can see, one of the trees. Second one, you can see complete data.

Dan, use two times. So replacement. Okay.

There is no two. Two is gone. Yeah.

Two is two is used as a prediction in that case. Okay.

And then you can generate multiple different maybe 500 of them.

And each time. You are using this one and then what is going to happen?

Your test set in the single run. 1 or 2 missing in your single run because as you can see, 1 or 2 is not there in out of bag.

Only three is there. So data would be predicted on three. And number five.

The second one. Data will be predicted on two, three and five.

Third one. It is only on three. Okay, maybe other one six is you can see six here but until five.

But and then all the informations will be aggregated together. So it will new samples is coming when new samples is going to connect.

That will check how how these guys rethink how these games anything these they,

they check individual one and they will aggregate all the answers together.

Okay. And then as you can see, new samples are coming or new observations are coming.

It will give a voting kind of thing okay. And then it will give overall score for each of the samples.

And that's how it works. So a couple of things.

Number one. Number one is that. A random forest.

It consists of multiple different decision tree. First point. Second point is aggregation and assembling, meaning not one tree.

Multiple trees will be doing. Some trees will be very good in prediction.

Some trees will not be good at predicting. Okay, so this is um, high variance low bias kind of modeling approach okay.

The randomness will come from the random sampling of the training, but also the rules will be very random in each of the nodes.

Okay. Oh, yeah. All right.

So, um. Okay. So here and then variable importance.

The variable importance will be measured in two ways okay.

One of the way is we call it in the other way of a mean decrease in accuracy.

So I'll give you one example.

Um for example, if something is important and you take out from the model, what do you think your model accuracy will be lower or higher or lower.

The model accuracy become known because it is important. Right. So.

If model accuracy significantly reduce very high error.

Meaning this important very this is important and that's how it should be.

They will do the ranking. They will throw randomly some some measurements from the model and will estimate how much error you are getting.

And it will do iteratively multiple times. It will do multiple times and aggregate those results together.

And then how do we see which one actually got highest number of error.

And that error will be the that particular feature will be the important one.

Okay. So in in our or anything we can we can just a few lines of script and it will do it for you in, in general.

Okay. So but the concept is is following. So if we think they are important if you flow from the modern.

The error rate will be increasing and we are estimating how much error risk model is making.

Okay. All right. So, um, so remember, uh, we will use the same in our practice.

We do the similar thing. Okay. So in this case. If you use the same single same data set.

If you remember. Actually, this is the same. Only thing I have used here changed RF.

I have just. You just changed. So that's why I'm saying if you know the the carrot package, you can run 140 different models at the same time.

You okay? And and. Metric RBC, RBC for regression or classification.

Uh regression regression. So R is for regression.

If it is a classification then it should be um AUC or many other F1 score or many other metric.

Okay. Okay, so what I will do, maybe I think, uh, here, um, I think I have put.

Let me see. Um. Give it a second.

What is it? So if you open to canvas 12th March, there is a call random for script.

If you. 12th March and then in the canvas.

And so you them. Yeah. Okay.

So here 12. So as you can see here on offer script, if you click on this script, uh, you will see there is a um I you want to.

Okay. So. There are some inbuilt data and from the data maybe you can try to do some some basic splitting.

And then and then you, uh, optimize your random forest model and then you trying to see how the performance is look like in this case.

Now, the data I am using in this particular example, which is called I, r, is this is a data from coming from, uh,

measurements in the plant to different, um, um, um, different species of the plant and different classification.

So this is people are using a lot this particular data for their own purpose.

Um, maybe you can try this and see how this is, uh, this particular, uh, method is working.

Okay, so the first thing would be you. You, uh, check your libraries, you, and install your libraries, if not available.

And then trying to slowly. Um. So maybe I'll show you a bit.

Uh, okay. Okay, so, um, maybe I'll clear the screen for us.

So these are. So you need three packages. One is Random Forest.

So I have installed already. That's why, uh, maybe you can not even install if you don't have.

And these are the three things. First you need. Yeah.

Um. And then. Okay.

And then there are two different data sets, actually. Uh, maybe we can try with one of them first.

Okay. So we tried one of them first. So data is equal to IDs.

So if I type. Um, head.

So this is the first way to look at it. If I, if I add a head, you know, and then it will show you.

So these are actually kind of a measurement of different plant, different size of the plant.

So you can see length, you can see bit uh width length um and other things.

And there are different species. So if you, if you um check the dimension of the data.

So if I, if I say um. Uh.

How many? So there are 150 rows. Five columns only.

Okay. Five column. So five columns. Meaning that in the in this case, um, there are five measurements.

Yeah. Okay. Um, so what do you do?

You kind of, um. The first thing is once you put some of the script, so said dot seed 123 meaning for the reproducibility.

And then I am defining my why in this case okay.

What is why. So I'm chopping operation. So I'm taking out PCs as my way.

And I'm forcing them as a factor okay. And forcing them as a factor in this case okay.

So this would be my outcome variable. Okay, this would be my outcome variable, meaning that I have a Y and how does it look like?

So if I say y. Okay. Okay.

So you can see here, I can say, um, there are many different classes.

So how many classes are there. One, two. I think three different classes.

Um. Unique.

Let us see how many classes you think. Unique. Uh oh.

Yeah. Yeah, I can see A levels. Yeah. So there are three levels.

Sea level, meaning that there are. This is not a binary class. This is a multi-class, more than two different classes here.

The first thing you classify. You split the data into parts and then one part will be training.

Another part will be testing. In the training part, you train the model and you predict on the dataset.

Looking to make. You.

You know. You should be involved with it.

We. You need to if you want to do anything that you that I can do, that you can use in that side of.

The home. We do understand the bonus issue.

I believe. That authors in.

You know, I think when you think about.

Was. He. You can.

I think that's. Millions of people move between.

You can. You can.

I think it's. Maggie.

Thank you. Yeah. Think it was beautiful.

Thank you, thank you, thank you. You know.

It's to understand. You just makes you.

You can. No one is looking for them.

See. Thank you, thank you.

You can see. I think.

Yes. You.

You can. I'm just.

You can see, you can. I think you can see.

So I don't think know. Well, you know.

The one type thing in the case of the classification. I mean, have to be on string.

Those are the units we just.

It's like you said in 1980. So if you see so complicated, we need this.

If you don't do this, we don't usually do the partition. The question to be different 1 in 1 of the.

So we just just keep in mind blossoming seeds. It's like exactly what you want to do to make it seem like you put something in.

So this would want you to think about I think it could be, you know,

so you can say, okay, so do you think that you would be okay with this even though.

Yeah, definitely. We're just asking you to go.

Does it look like this data that's been seen in a thousand years and.

I don't know, how would we know that? That's okay. Really all the time.

And that's all we want. We want to. Make a lot of money out of working and doing the question again in a new scoring resolution.

So I don't know what this means. But, you know, you might if you're looking for a speech that, you know, I spoke probably like I don't mean answer.

Hopefully something that, you know is. Doing business and I think and I'm going crazy.

Right. So there's a factor in from.

All these different ways that you can have pizza rolling on me with some people in the morning working to get them to something good.

Since they also came to dominate the 324.

Yes. You know, like. I believe that's next meeting.

I would say so. Yes.

I think there's been a lot of people being mentioned.

I know this doesn't believe it. And then we can review what it is and we want to see what is your view on this.

But because I don't really know what to do,

I don't know if it's going to continue until it's that you are not alone and you are having problems from the community.

That's what this is like.

You might not be able to say, you get to me, I think, yeah, you know, he was for a little while, so we would like to still consider going to.

Yeah, I think I think, yeah.

You know, but like one of my. But what is this?

What is this? What do you get? Is it the optimum number you want of the only?

And we'll ask you a number of please pass on.

If I can link you back to normal telegraph. If you don't use you can watch as a link on like this.

This change when I just like hear the and see what I want to begin I think.

So it makes me wonder why I don't know why do I like you like this type of thing?

Like it's good. That's all I can say.

Do you like it? Yeah. I need somebody on the left hand side.

But then I think that that's like one of the things I like.

I think it was. Nice that people thinking something that like you don't do it again.

Hug the babies. Why did you tell them that we did that?

Okay, so that's how you learn. So I don't know why you like them, but I'm not sure.

Things like that. Okay. Okay, so maybe I should explain a bit.

A little bit more. So the first thing, uh, um, uh, you can see there are two different data sets.

One is for classification and one is for regression. So we'll do step by step.

So let's let's talk about the classification one. In the classification one this is the data.

So this is the data which is the measured in a plant. So this is called iris data.

Okay. Now first thing to check the dimension of your data okay.

So if you take the time you will find 100.

Um what is this one 5150 rows and five measurements.

Okay. This is the first thing. The second thing is, um, because it is a classification problem, you will have a specific outcome variable.

In your case, outcome variable is different species. Okay.

And where these outcome variable located your outcome variable is located.

End of end of your fifth column. Yeah.

You realize your outcome variable is located in the fifth column.

Okay okay. There is a reason why I am saying that in the script you will see something.

I am removing something I'm doing on the fifth column.

That is why it is very important to realize the position of your outcome variable where it is located.

Okay, how do I know it is multiple? How many classes if you type unique.

So this is your outcome variable and I'm chopping if you recall the chopping operator

meaning it is the data from the data I'm interested in species I'm dropping it.

And then I'm using a function called unique. I am asking to give me unique number.

How many numbers are unique. So it is giving me three meaning three classes.

It is a multi-class problem. Okay, you can think of in your examples maybe.

Good. Very good, extremely good. Three classes are good. Bad. Uh, moderately good or moderately bad.

Something like this. These are class okay. Now.

Now the first thing is splitting the data. So here you can see I'm creating an index.

The index will I the reason I have created the index.

This will automatically randomly create some of the samples out of 150 okay here from I.

So this is my y okay B is equal to 0.7 meaning the probability I am asking zero point.

So I'm saying 70% of the of of of the tree okay.

We can change it if someone is interested in 80 therefore 0.80.6.

If someone interested in 60% okay then I am passing this index in my data.

So I am creating my training data. I am creating my training data in the training data.

I have taken uh, um, the index, um, uh, which is uh, is located in train index.

Okay. And then you can see negation negate negative symbol, meaning the rest of the samples should go.

My testing. Okay. This is very basics.

The people uh, I think I think many people are there in the last class.

Maybe so, uh, I think last two. Yeah. So I have explained those things.

Those people who have not attended. You need to really go through these, otherwise you'll be lost.

Okay. So so then I am checking the dimensions of the data.

Okay. It is a very good practice that you check all the time. What are the dimensions?

You are mainly okay. So I have created two objects in two objects.

I am checking what are my dimensions. Okay. Then the first thing is I am trying to optimize my random forest.

And what is this m try what is I try and trace number of three I'm using.

Okay in this case. So I am I am using a function called tune RF and then train data.

I take out negative five. What does it mean. You remember this one is the my outcome variable.

I take this out and then I am trying all possible way I am trying I actually it is it is like in a big search space.

I am creating a search space. In this search space I am considering what is my optimum try.

I am looking for my best parameter. Okay.

Now remember this is the parameter. Now parameter optimization, would you?

How we will do it in a member in vessel. How will we look at the mean square error.

So lower the error better. It is in this case as well I think you get something, something like this.

Um, let me let me see if I can. Well, yeah, it is here, but I cannot see that.

Okay. You can. Okay.

Have you? Have you bought anything? Something like this? Yeah. What does it mean?

It meaning the y axis I am trying.

Possible. 123456789. Okay.

In C, it found global optimum value.

What is global optimum. Local optima. Global optima. So coming from optimization theory.

But we are optimizing my end right. And this model is enough.

If you if you have a three trees you know three trees because corresponding error in the model is low.

If you use to very high error in the model so you don't use it.

Okay if you use for it is very high, so you use something in between in this case.

Okay. Same goes for less. So remember the lesson lecture or something you have done.

You actually have to take into account the the minimum error.

And that particular penalty is very similar in this case. What is three okay maybe three.

So we are taking the three m number of three splitting in the notes.

Should put zero. Yeah. So three rules in the sense there will be three combinations for each time.

Three splitting one will be doing so each node will be splitting multiple times.

So how many variables will we take into account to split. So for example, you know, so here, you know.

If you want to create a rule, you can take into account one feature to make a rule to feature.

In this case, three three is considered to make the rule.

To make the rule okay, but only then do not know which which one.

We'll see later on. Verse three. In this case, just three okay.

All right. So if you if you type in best uh that will give you three.

So that is the visualization. I'm nothing nothing extra. Okay.

And then what do you do? You you you fuse it.

Okay. You fuse that particular information in your model. So this is a very important step.

So you are doing random forest here. This is the function. Species data is equal to train data entry is number of tree m.

Try and best you have take into account and importance is equal to true meaning that you are asking random forest.

I also want to see which are the important measurements are contributing to my outcome variable.

Okay. And then what do you do? Um, okay.

I mean. Okay.

So if I, if I because I am already done my calculations, if I print it and it will show me okay.

If it will show me how the values are look like in this case, okay.

How the values are look like in this case. And then and then we can go further.

We can we can see how the predictions look like. So other okay.

Okay. So here. And then once we feed the model, we are testing on the new data.

So new data is equal to test data. So in this case 30% of the data 30% of the data, meaning that 45 samples.

You remember this particular object we are feeding in there. Okay.

And this is comes the confusion matrix. The confusion matrix as it says it is a combination between your prediction and what you observed.

Okay. How you should interpret this particular species setosa predicted is a setosa 15 out of 15 100% prediction.

Okay. Uh versicolor versus versicolor 14 correctly predicted two.

Wrong. Okay to wrong.

Okay. And then Virginia, these predicted as a Virginia 13 one is wrong.

And these and from these metrics we can we can estimate overall accuracy.

We can estimate different other statistic for example classes sensitivity specificity how the model.

These are all the parameters.

If you recall that we talked about true positives false positives false negative all the parameters we can estimate from there okay.

And finally I think quite important is variable.

But these are in plot. So it is called variable importance plot.

I wanted to see how variable importance plot look like when I, when I, um, fit my model.

So here uh, let's see. So if in my case you can see this is the mean decrease in accuracy.

Meaning that meaning that, um, uh, the top one is, uh, higher.

If you take out from the model, the error accuracy will be very high.

And that's why it is important. So it is quite, quite highest.

And the second one and third one, fourth one, there is something else you get which is called mean decrease in Gini.

This is a two different ways. But they they tell you the same thing.

They tell you the same thing. For example you can see these are these are exactly same ranking of.

Of your measurements. These are exactly same as your measurement.

So Gini is something come from the entropy. But their, um, main objective is ranking your measurements.

Which one is important? Which one is not important? Okay.

So if you think about globally, how does it look like.

So first of all you need to decide which method you are going to use.

That's the first thing. Second thing is you identify your why in your in your data.

Okay. Is it class or is it. Is it a continuous value?

Okay. The second, the 34th thing, you divide your data.

You identify the best hyperparameter in this field and find the best hyperparameter.

Then you fit your model. Then you predict on which one is left out.

Simple. In this case the the the testing samples.

And then you generate your marker, your, um, uh, metrics, metrics, accuracy, sensitivity and all the things.

Okay. So this is an example for uh classification.

And you can try exactly the similar way. Um, the, the regression problem.

So in this case, um, if you let me pull it up.

Okay. So in this case, um, this is classification.

This is regression. So this is called empty cart. This is another data set here okay.

And you can. You can check. How does it work?

Okay. Um. Okay.

So here. Uh, okay.

Let me let me do it first. Here. So here, this data.

So how many dimensions? So you can you can check your dimensions.

So you can check head. Okay.

So. As you can see here, these are the different measurement of the different cards.

So here it changed each of the name of the car.

And they are properties of the car. Okay.

So for example mileage I mean display uh horsepower rate uh weight is and many, many different other characteristics.

Okay. Now here each of the characteristics has a different measurement okay.

For example vs if you if you take the vs um, if I, if I do um, uh, empty cars and then I chop out.

Voice and if I type the operator called unique.

Because I'm looking at. So zero and one. Okay.

So in VS if you wanted to use the outcome variable you can use the regression type of approach.

Okay. Uh sorry. Classification type of approach. Okay. Um but then you can also estimate mpg.

What are the mile per gallon prediction.

Each of the car how much it will go for example based on other parameters.

In this case it can be a regression type of approach. But then if it is a regression then other things will change as well.

Meaning that here in the model. Um.

Yeah, I think I think in this case other things would also change. For example, once you type this.

This particular part, you will see the differences. So maybe you can try and see what are the differences you are getting in this case.

Maybe use the different outcome variable. Maybe use as a mg as a regression.

And maybe aim is a kind of a categorical. Changing is also going to be easy.

I think that's the issue. I see some people. For.

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

On behalf of the prosecution.

Team. Do you think you.

Information and you can do. I think you.

This is. So.

Thank you sir. Teaching.

From. You. Quite the same thing.

People experience. BBC.

Something's. Spooky.

You know, we don't see anything in between condoms until.

You can use it. We need all these things in this country.

Otherwise, it too will work for them.

I just think, uh, if you go to your uncle, you can go to Kansas.

Yeah, they can go to the golden modules. You can go to 12th March week.

It means you won't march when we go to march with them.

And then you can see the Wednesday under the sun as this one case studies.

You see that? Very good. I'm going to get rid of that.

Bye bye. So we expect to have five groups.

141 total. So that means there are eight students per group.

So that is wrong. So we expect to have 49 students at once.

I will let with just divide aside from the integration. So each group to have five students.

Okay. So so around eight groups and 1000 students okay.

So then you can select each of them what you want to do. Yeah, I have seven.

Thank you for the wonderful visit. All right, well, let me say for you guys, there are people that's over is only 41.5 million people out there.

And. It was only.

One divided by seven. What is sort of a.

Funny thing. So one group will have six others, right?

Is that a. Yeah. If someone is very sad, is managing life cycle okay?

Okay. Now, who is the CEO of this glass? Zero. It's, uh.

Not us. You realize that glass wasn't really willing to sell these guys?

I mean, you know, three CEOs. Well, you know, for for being with us here on this model, we don't have that.

Okay. Who wants to be the of money? What do they have in New York?

Yeah. What do you think? Okay. I live in Seattle.

Okay. So what you are going to do is, you know the answer you make.

Good. You don't make the rules. Then that would be a big. Okay.

So you take the name of the group. Okay.

But not the name of it. Yeah. I'm in Brooklyn. Exactly.

You think the names make it an activity and give it to me in the form of rules?

Okay. In the. Okay. Okay. So this is it.

You can start working on it. The bots form 70% is data analysis, you know?

Yeah. That's it. That's you. Yeah.

And this will be very mixed. And the questions are very related to the what you were doing in the class.

Yeah. And I have a few at 100% in the class.

You get 75% mark anyway. Yeah. And most of the most of the work you want to do here is better than most of the assignments.

Your, uh, is a vision. So, friends, what we're doing in the morning.

Know you don't see that. So this is this is this week for helping us get out in investment and investment.

Yeah. How can we know who you are? Uh, what's not to like?

You know how big of a risk you have?

Not very much. But, um, I've met with the people involved, so I had to show them an email.

Uh, do you remember that? Yeah. This last year, it was 136.

Is this eight of us? I think so if you got a you got a job in Lloyds Bank?

Yeah, I replaced this class. You know, we did exactly what was required in this class.

I should not have done that, you know.

Oh. Uh, no. No, I mean, this is not I mean, there is, um, so, um, the the other things we are doing, I am involved in other courses, other modules.

And there is one girl, she did a biomedical science undergrad and did MSC data science, and she got a Lloyds Bank.

So she was she was really good. She did an interdisciplinary bachelor in her bachelor studies.

So people are sometimes using these particular skills to develop certain circumstances.

Yeah, absolutely. Um, so those challenges are mixed between supervised algorithm versus unsupervised algorithms.

It's one of these terms the topic. Pardon. How do you choose a topic.

Yeah. So that is also yeah. That is. Uh, we we we have solution.

So, uh, what I tell you what I do, I randomly generate numbers.

Yeah, yeah. That's it. And just do that, you know. I don't know.

But but but the topic but but but but, uh, you know, these topics are, uh, I mean, yeah.

So there are, there are five topics that a lot of people one.

Yeah. So it depends on the interest. It depends on the person who the that is depends on the data.

But but if you are if you are happy with everything in life which is very important.

Yeah, it's not so much anymore. That is fine.

That is fine. That is fine. That is fine. So you all can please listen so you all can have similar.

So two groups can do similar topics, but all seven groups cannot go one topic.

Okay. Then there is cross-contamination and the marks will also get contaminated okay.

Yeah yeah. Okay. So see it is very simple as this one case studies group 123455 groups.

You can select whatever you want. Okay.

So it's very simple. Okay. You can start working on it.

Make a good project and and do it.

The other thing which I wanted to show is some of you have seen it. It's better you.

Digital literacy amongst indigenous. Do we need to present something we do here?

Yeah, it's in two parts. One is the presentation. So?

So when you do a presentation, do it in a better way.

Read this email. Read this part. It is this part.

The rest of the part is tanking. You don't have to. I can see not.

Can you read it? Yeah. Y'all have read it. Some of y'all.

Others are stupid. I think I've got a few of them.

So he was. I don't know, unless you've read about the seven of us both being very kind.

Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Well, I've invited this guy to come over, so.

But I don't know when he will come. He's right now in London. He will be joining in Manchester.

So I've invited him to come too, just to have a word with you all so you can have so.

But couple of things I wanted to share about this guy. So before getting the job, if you got 230 rejections.

Yep. Like for this job in January he got it on six.

He got it on says and he called me on six. Actually messaged me on first but we spoke on six.

And, uh, he used to work in, uh, for a part time job.

He used to work in Sainsbury's. But he left it, and he used to spend about a month in the library in upgrading his skills.

Yeah. Upgraded his skills to plot AI and plot code.

I don't know whether he I know. I mean, really, that's kind of know.

Um, but God, I and he has developed this, uh, and that the other thing I made, this was a joke,

you know, but that this meant that he had two rounds of interviews after the first round.

In the first round. You know, he showed what we can.

He developed a dashboard and showed it to Lloyds Bank. And second round of interviews was not helped because they were so impressed.

And instead of the second round of interviews. Actually, what he told me is that he negotiated his salary a bit.

I have not asked about the salary and if it comes, please don't ask that because it's not a good question.

But what if you want to ask? It's right. So he did that and he's he will be sponsored by Lloyds.

Uh, it is another one. I mean, I think this is from the first batch. The Stanford one.

Yeah. Selena. Uh, I think she's in California.

Oh, okay. Uh, so I know that it's a linear, but it's something that she's very proactive.

So if I send a message, she doesn't respond. Uh, I mean, maybe if you organize some illuminate or something.

Those guys are very strong in case someone is interested based on one thing that they make sometimes.

I think Selena did a double masters one. She's a fellow, uh, less like, you know, a Fulbright.

Fulbright? Oh, wow. She got a Fulbright Fellowship scholarship, and then, uh, she had a one Masters in fintech,

but she had a masters in United States, and she's not I think I would finish, I guess, uh, well, maybe for free.

Yeah. For people. And so these are quite small.

Um, and also there are other people I remember she was from the first university was the first I remember, I remember the.

So there are then a few of them. But this is true for jobs.

I mean not don't expect them to be easy. They are not waiting for you, for you, and you don't have to wait for them.

Yeah, you can also just go to sleep. So there are 40 in this class.

Yeah. Cambridge. Oxford. Leeds. Imperial.

Imperial. Yeah. Imperial. You are competing with them a more interesting record in University of Birmingham.

Okay. So, you know, let me finish. Let me finish. You fintech, you'll be competing with data science from computer science.

You will be competing with head of data science from cancer and genomic science.

You'll be competing with statistical data science from mathematics.

I mean, we don't know. You know, the thing is, like, here comes the resilience.

Here comes the resilience now. So you need to be like you, you know, ball.

So if you will come back to you something like this. Otherwise on top of it geopolitical scenarios that that's another thing.

So but. But things are happening.

But the you know, the few people who say, oh, look, this is not my deal.

So even if they've gone any. Yes.

Do you think it's more like if you know someone, it gives you an advantage?

I don't know that, but probably. Probably.

You may go to the interview. Yeah, yeah yeah, yeah. But then you don't make it then.

Because no one is going to take you based on if it's if it's not a very small company, if it's your dad's company, your dad's friend might get it.

That is something else. But in KPMG with the recommendations and but the what?

The very promising thing is the worst ever student in Python was in the second batch.

Got a job in, uh, hedge fund. And the hedge fund company died.

I mean, he knew nothing. I got paid people.

I work with him. And then. I said, well, I don't know whether the insurance company still exists or not that it was,

but if you can get a job and actually you can get a job, you there is a chance that you all won't get a job because you all are very good.

You know, one company doesn't want good guys, you know.

Yeah, but but but the key is very simple. You know, you got to make this small, small things and join the company just by learning what animation.

The same one. The project you are doing this, you know, you make it into whatever application which you are doing.

It has to be in your GitHub account. It has to be in your GitHub account because that is what the companies see.

Okay application. Not the knowledge, but the application. Anyone can have knowledge and you don't need an image for knowledge elements at that point.

Okay. Tell you what. The deadline for this. And then when do we propose anything.

Deadline is in May. So we need to because we don't have class.

So. So no you don't have classes in May. So if if the course gets completed then on the last day of the course you will present it.

Okay. What if we're not here? That's what I'm asking. So we should know if you are not here you can president through zoom or something.

Like this. Obviously, it's after the summer break. After the Easter break.

But please listen to one group of the team can present.

Okay, so everybody has to stand in a line. And this formally.

No. If you dress formally, marks will be attendees.

You can just. Everybody okay. Just or please listen if, if the post is not getting completed, I mean, if there is something more we want,

I mean beyond the post, if something more we want to teach, then there will be no presentation.

You will just upload or email me the presentation. Okay.

And also whenever we do presentations you can do a visual presentation.

Canva. You know this Google will convert them.

And this Canva this company will go. And what does this mean five minutes question physical we do.

Or does this mean today? I posted it when they first showed the assessment week.

Assessment Philippine-American. Exactly. Exactly where you asked us to go.

And that's it. Just want to be sure that. What's the next line between you and give me.

Those are all very good. This is I mean, yeah, I mean this was this was you know, this was like this was a flop last year.

It's a vindicate you then five. You just wanted to do it at 19 and just upload it okay.

Don't don't don't worry about this. You know this is cool. But then I said don't worry about this.

Now don't go and email well-being and say that, you know, and and there's a, you know,

that that that thing happened to mean that somebody had gone in a complaint against me in the.

Well, yeah. This course is this is what can I do like.

Okay. And they want the job.

But anyways don't worry about that assessment week okay. The thing is very simple.

You do a very good presentation I sorry I do a very good project.

Take that project in November. Okay. Just don't present it in a word document that you have to do.

But that thing should be in your GitHub. You understand.

And you can you can put something more like, you know, putting numbers etc., right?

Put that in a GitHub. You present a document which will be uploaded in canvas.

Make a presentation. If you have the presentation, you have the presentation. Otherwise you made the presentation to me or you uploaded.

We will tell you okay, but learn in the cloud so don't worry too much of me.

Yeah, seventh of me is pretty lame. So some folks I have to get something like that.

Yeah. And then and then if you have any questions regarding the assignment, things where you can email me on the right.

Okay. Yeah. Maybe I'm having to meet in a group, maybe some.

What if it don't have to be in the classroom settings?

Okay. So people have done this last time things I think some people ask me questions about these ones.

Yeah. Um, and I see people what they do sometimes.

Uh, what I don't be saying they make a GitHub repo, and also they put you in the LinkedIn as well,

that they made a presentation, the project kind of thing. And, uh, they encourage other people to see it.

So they put in Lincoln as well.

That was a little bit just to see that this is the applicability that someone, someone from the other class put it in the LinkedIn and their message.

You can you can comment on it. So what I thought I could do that.

I put it into Claudia and I said, write a very big good comment.

I am glad and I copy pasted comments. Come on here, right? Yeah.

No, I mean this is the way that I have to change and I'm really happy to do, you know,

so I wouldn't actually comment because I am going from yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Make the comment and I'm open it, I have to use it. Yeah okay.

And then it's not your call. That's I comment but it is my feeling.

Yeah. Okay. If I say so when you say the whatever slot for one thing is not right.

Yeah. So, uh, please look into the zip files. Look into the data.

When now you have got I mean, you have to decide which one you want to go over.

And then and then there will be two problems here, either unsupervised or supervillains.

You can choose whatever you like, whether it's don't choose all of them in one.

There should be variety. Some of them I get credit card prediction, some of them are banking on some of the stock market data, some sufficient rate.

Some some of them are like in um, marketing mix model.

Yeah. How do you prioritize the strategy based on that. Yeah.

So so yeah. Okay. There was no individual assignment in this module.

If you want to do an individual assignment, you come to me, I will give you a special and you have some fun.

So this is the group assignment and a group project.

And it is no individual assignment. So it is very, very, uh, um, should I say vital.

Yeah, it's a good module and you will get good grades,

but but the learning is key if you understand the learning key this modules which you are learning right now, you have to implement it.

And your assignment is about in the other not the module like that.

You know um it's I mean, if you want someone to think about what is your interest in this problem, it's not like a complete work for me.

That's what I was. Yeah.

This is the thing. So so it you realize, I mean, we focus on learning.

Yeah. More and more. Yeah. So so these you can you can take it as a transferable skills.

That's what I'm trying to say. Yeah. Yeah 100%. I mean, does it really matter if I'm giving you some data?

I'm not telling which determines. If I if I tell you this is my way.

This is my x. Can you use algorithm? Yes.

So I am not telling you where the data coming from, but it is in that way.

It is very transparent. Yeah. Okay. So because we talked about before, can we take some break?

Maybe except for one more thing. So this is one project which is divided into two components presentation and report writing.

I think each is 5050% or 60%, whatever it is.

Is it? Yeah. Yeah. Any doubt?

Email me. Yeah. So, you know, I believe in distance learning.

I'm the programmer that included me, the email Vice-Chancellor, copying me as a programmer.

Oh, boy. You know, I really. Yeah. This is this is why we do get this kind of calculation.

So lots of times, at least you you he may be helping him, but you may even call me.

At least get the thing right. Instead of a problem, email me.

He may hear that. I might not like the format of the document.

No. There's no format.

I mean, the format is no. I tell you, if you look, I think that there would be format for you.

How do you write? And I tell you what, what are the things this group do I tell you somebody I'll tell you the the format.

Okay. Format. I mean, because we are giving you data,

we expect you should do something to figure out how the descriptive statistics will play the first steps, if there are any missing values.

Anything. Okay. The second step. Second step.

The decision of you. Really? Which model? You are going directly.

Right? Yeah. Okay. And then what are you.

I mean, I think I'm tell you, maybe the next class a little bit more on the structure because I'm not sure if you're finished with in one week.

No, probably. But but I'll tell you, these are the week.

I have two assignments coming up now. Okay. Okay.

Yeah. No, no, no, I'm happy to give some guidance. You didn't I mean, I mean, it will help you to write it on one side.

You have on the other project or things like that.

Yeah. Yeah. Do you remember? Yeah. I said okay.

Yeah. It will be very similar. Yeah, it will be very similar. Yeah yeah yeah yeah.

Do the how you do the project. You know, you have data analysis.

Then you will have and you know, estimations and then you will have maybe predictions and the descriptive.

Well you know it's and then finally you need to link with the data you get if,

if I'm giving you a bank data, you need to tell how you are going to implement.

What is your policy, this kind of description at all? We can do.

Absolutely. And then I think there are some papers I am putting in the, in the, in the canvas.

You need to read those papers again. You can make it innovative.

You know, if there is a word limit try to follow easily.

So personally I don't I think okay. Couple of things.

One more question. One member of the group is going to submit the assignment okay.

So there are eight groups. So eight projects should go in.

Not 41 projects will not be marked.

Yeah. Not nice, I promise. I think it's a different month.

So help here. So everybody in the group is going to get the same mask.

Okay. So now it is your opportunity to negotiate with your group members and become a social loafer.

That is you don't do the work. Others do the work, but you also get solution.

Now if you are of that quality guy, then then it is all the result you want.

That's okay. Yes. If you want to complain about your group member, if you want to complain about your group member, it is very good and not a problem.

But do not make it lawsuit. Complain, okay? If you want to complain, you just come and tell me.

I will tell the group member to work. It's not that you write that this is on you now.

I am calling him or her and she is not coming for days.

It has happened. Don't. It should not go for four days. One day you tell me, okay.

But that shouldn't be the case. Don't unnecessarily complain. Okay.

Everybody is not going to get distinction.

Because if everybody against this direction that I will be questioned working against will because the whole class.

But so this is the important thing. So who gets the distinction?

Everybody applied for the Lloyds Bank job, right? He got it.

Why? He created a dashboard which the others did not.

Do you understand? So each group has to think what they can do differently.

Now, if you share that with the other group, absolutely fine.

But also you will see that the differentiation reduces, right?

So some of the things everybody will do but some of the things should come from you.

Okay. So if you think that this is a group school or a group school it's a team project.

Yeah. If it isn't working well yeah. Okay. But you got to do something more.

What is asked do you always have to do plus one? Okay.

So that's why those papers, if you read. Yeah, you can get some idea or you can do the entire gpt2 idea as well.

But then you remember tangibly do mistakes as well, like references.

And you need to be totally clear. Yeah. So as long as you are okay with these ones, that's fine.

Anything. And if you have any technical problem, you can always email me and then I'm happy to talk to you.

Really? Yeah. So. So these are the things. Okay.

Uh, maybe you can take a break five, ten minutes and we'll come back. Yeah, I think there's only a handful that you.

The. For the public good.

Yeah yeah yeah, yeah.

I have seen. Uh, 250.

I think there is one. Yeah. Yeah. But then, uh, you can use it later.

Just check if it is charging. You know what I'm talking about.

Recharging. Uh, yeah. It is. Thank you.

Are you sure? You know you do.

What would you buy for us? I think, um. Um.

Not as. Much as well.

The only thing I could find, I think.

Oh, man. You're coming with us. Thank you.

How'd you get on this time? It's not that, you know.

It's okay. It's okay.

I think it's about time to begin again.

Yeah, like when you want to buy a house. I don't know exactly what this is.

I'm sorry. I didn't know what you're thinking. I think there's something good I can.

Do in the warehouse.

Yeah. Awesome. Any guesses?

Definitely. Doesn't give you anything.

I'm not too sure. Yeah, but we are on time.

I only have about eight days in the U.S.

Is. The right time slot.

Luckily, my husband and I enjoy it more.

But. Um, also important for us.

Obviously, you're not involved. Excellent. I think she's lovely.

So. Oh, I see that he doesn't.

Love me. I know, that's assumption.

So you have something in common?

No. Well. No problem.

Yeah, but it does remind you.

Of what he was. But it's not really what you spoke on.

It's something else. But, um.

Anyhow, I wasn't going to until about this month about the placement of the offices of the officer.

That was awesome. Yeah, we can always. And this is this is one reason that we want you to understand, you know.

I don't know. What it means.

So I knew the uniforms as well. Why don't you try for the sake of.

I. Okay. So I'm sure about this.

So that was a mystical. Leap.

I mean, it's the exact same thing. Yeah. It's only useful when the economy.

Is equal. All. Of the same things we say about our young folks.

That we find ourselves in so much trouble.

How do. You think this morning.

Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Then how do we want to challenge the system?

Who's in control? I mean, what happens in this case?

You got to have some options.

It's not too complicated. It was all.

So now they've finished with us.

Like with us, like we haven't. So I think if you have a meeting tomorrow.

Do it tomorrow. Yeah. If I have any kind of sessions.

Yeah. I'll just go down to the office.

You can have some exciting times. Does that make you feel like in control?

I think. I think the broth is vital and I love the message.

I want to get it just inside of one thing and then also reduce like all of an of.

Oh, it's not over. Well, no, I don't mean that.

You know, like some of these people.

Some of me to be able to do all the work for you.

And that's it. Oh, um.

Oh. Is it. It's a lot harder than you think.

Is this it? Is that.

I was just going to do that as. Then you can just do the microphone and then I'm okay.

Obviously have a question for him.

Which is now what I love about the mascot about this is that there's all this insight inviting open hearts and open audience.

I was like, thank you.

Yeah. I can also see that you are an outflow of that size.

Yeah. It's you know, it's a lot. Of work for other business opportunities.

Well, what are we going to be done?

Um, yeah, but the $100. And also the decisions of the.

Of animals. Do I know how to call them?

Amen. Please be seated.

Do you know that I.

I'm sorry that you have looked at me, but if you lost, one of it's going to be the one on the other side of the living.

Room. Oh, you are talking about one thing, but that is something like I am attempting to see.

What it. Looks like.

It's a rather silly statement. But nothing.

Changes. Nothing was announced to me like this sort of stuff.

Once you get there, I feel like that's okay.

No. That's right. So you're going to get me. I know, feels bad.

Yeah. What are you looking towards? Well, let's open up.

Let's see what she looks like.

Actually, I'm not reading from that statement. It would be logical.

I guess you've already met with this group. Well, I'll say so as well.

You know, I can't believe just like minded about, you know.

Oh, I don't think. You have.

To be terribly. I said it's all I know.

So you don't need to tell me what you people from the press and solely.

Do you like this?

I do. Something like this never happens like that.

And. I really.

Need to thank you for being here for a lot of.

I'm not going to. I don't want you to. Loosen up.

I'd love to do anything for you. I owe you an apology.

So am I. Yes, we. Are.

That's what I'm going to do all by myself.

I'm thinking about those people, you know, just like me.

I'm ready for this one. It's very much.

It's not what you are. It's like you said, nice.

Pretty good to see you kind of get out of that one operation, you know.

I think that's, I don't know, something surprising is that you are still on.

The receiving end. On everything.

Except in dismantling everything in the school system.

Which. Involved.

A of college football players, I don't know.

You know, I don't know. I don't know.

Yeah. So I mean, you got to do other stuff because stuff like that.

Now I'm talking about a whole different. Yeah. I don't know, look inside, I can know.

It's just. It's all just black and white. I don't think you have of the Monsanto images or just exactly the southern parts of, you know, the.

Experience of. Yes. It is.

That look what I.

I mean. Yeah. I know that's how much I know, right?

Well, it looks like like a Hollywood symbol that we covered for you.

Oh, good for you. What do you like about this?

Flavor. That's so good. We love this job.

Also, I want you to know that I love you.

Well, it's no big deal. Sorry much.

How much for? What do you mean? Why? Because I like running.

I want that. Why did you do that so much?

It was so I said, I cannot you.

That was a lot of people. You are awesome.

Well, it's about time, you know. And if we don't find anybody like some of these people.

What about my wife? have, and you open, for example, what some.

People say because look, okay, okay, here's your ways of dealing with you.

I got more than thinking on the topic or any cognitive threshold if this is on your own.

Once all. Of this.

Is of concern because in some ways it's an awful lot like it's it's I don't really I'm not evil.

Okay. Thank you. Might be a little bit more complicated, but since I don't have Covid numbers on them.

I want you purchase like I knew about, you know, I don't I don't want to I don't know,

I don't know, I don't know I got all the time I okay who's never ever put there we go 2007.

Yeah. Yeah okay. So they haven't. Changed.

They want I want to check. So I don't have to get like a movie on the computer.

You have no. Idea about what?

You don't really. Know about.

Because of course you. Know.

So you're not. Thank you, thank you, thank you.

Uncomfortable on the road.

On himself is a modern Negro. Are you okay?

I mean, come on, come on.

You know, that's not just pretty much. I know what I'm talking about.

I'm gonna put this on the plane. Okay, so before rate of a couple of things.

Number one, I mean, you can use randomforest for classification.

You can use for regression. The second example, you know, you should have taken NPG as an outcome variable.

You remember. So you yeah you can take any other one. But I think is a good practice.

Now that you have got your um assignment topics, you actually can try out a couple of algorithms already.

Definitely the last week thing like let's do regression or relational or elastic net regression and try out how performance look like.

Now. Not necessarily. Your data will be best if you use it just only one method.

Okay. So if you compare two different method yet, then you might find one method is giving you a better quality of your model.

You should take that one and discuss more and more. Yeah.

So, um, so so so for each of the data set, it is always advisable you apply more than one method.

Okay. Uh, maybe in the next course I will tell you how you approach.

If you say the writing, what are the structure? So.

I have sent some kind of instructions.

Um, I think humans are not too much.

Um, the week before, uh, by email announcement.

You remember some practice session I have asked. So these are the structure?

More or less. But maybe I will organize a bit in the next class.

And I tell you, the first thing would be your whole development.

Okay. So like a descriptive statistics, some kind of an idea about the second step is, uh, which modeling approaches you are going to take and why.

Okay. That would be the second. And. Hardship would be.

What results? What model you've got. Is it a good model? Bad model?

Your comments on that and that thought would be your reflection of your data in the context of the data you got.

So some people have got maybe record data. Some people might have got a marketing mix modeling type of approach, uh,

how frequently people are buying stuffs or how much they're spending these type of things.

Okay. So you need to kind of discuss in the context. Yeah.

So I would highly recommend you to kind of go through the literature.

Yeah. Some papers on on those lines. And then you can enrich their bit more on those sites as well.

Okay. Okay. Now, now that um, so please practice the regression and classification both for random forest and what I am going to talk about.

Now, some practicals on the clustering because one of the, uh, data is actually um,

one to I can't remember now, but it would be about how we can identify subgroups in the population.

Okay. Based on the population.

Uh, can you, based on the data, can you identify some subpopulation which is very specific and based on your subpopulation,

can you derive some sort of a policy on, let's say you have a 2000,

2000 people living in particular location, and they are you have got their, uh, information.

So based on that, can you derive some, um, some promotional thing or something like this?

Okay. So, uh, in that context, if you go to the canvas today's date and you will find one of the script called unsupervised clustering.

Okay. Everyone got it right. Yeah. So you will find unsupervised clustering.

And then if you can open this particular uh this is a few lines.

There are not many, many, many um instructions.

But what all I wanted to show you that given, um, given an unsupervised problem,

how we can approach, how we can do at least basic type of clustering methodology.

Okay, so, um, maybe I'm.

Okay. And the data will be we are using the same data actually empty card.

The data I have just introduced. Yeah. So here, uh, this is the data which is called, um.

Uh, you just have seen this and this particular one. You can see that all the classes, all the individuals or all the name.

Yeah. And then these are the measurement. Uh, we are going to cluster them.

We are going to identify which parts are very similar. Okay.

Okay. Um, so the first thing is in this process, um.

In the clustering. What are the first thing you need to decide on? You need to think about the distance, how we are going to measure.

So in the script, if you look into the script, you will see that I am, first of all, finding a kind of a, um.

Defining the distance. Okay. So finding the distance metrics.

So in this case I am creating a object in this object.

I am using dist function dist for distance empty car.

This is the name of my data. So in your case if you read in your data that will be your data.

Okay. But in this case the empty cars method Euclidean. Now question is can we use other one?

Yes. How do I know that. So if you k question mark dist oh sorry question mark DST.

So I am typing the. So you see it is recognizing huh.

So I typed it enter and then and then it is hidden here.

Uh okay. Okay.

Uh. De este. So they are showing two different possibilities.

So this is the one I want. So you can see de is the function.

And there are many other arguments you wanted to put. Um let's see method in this case method.

You can you can put Euclidean. You can put correlation as well.

Okay. Uh, and I have discussed last time the differences between. They have a different mathematical formulations.

For example, correlation is like maybe you can see that this is normalized value.

A Pearson based correlation or Euclidean is a is a kind of, uh,

absolute value between differences between two different data points in that case okay.

So we can define first of all the distance one. Uh, so I have stored all the value here.

And the next thing what I am doing, I am um. Okay.

I'm, um. A kind of a simple hierarchical clustering.

I'm fitting a simple hierarchical clustering here. So I put centroid C 240.

As I see it centered. It will give you some kind of a stability or some kind of a reproducibility in your data.

And then hierarchical cluster. Each cluster each cluster is the function.

Each cluster is for clustering. And then you will observe what I am doing here I am passing I am passing my distance met object okay.

In the distance met object I have calculated all possible distances here.

And then I am asking method is equal to average.

You remember there are average method single linkage um and multiple other linkage is three different linkages and averages which I'm using average.

You can choose whatever you want. Yeah it is just an example.

Maybe you can compare and then you choose what looks very um like an explainable in that case.

Okay. So once you do it and. Just showing some, uh, I think I know, uh, why this.

But you know why it is because I have not given any, um, uh, comment, uh, here.

And, ah, is kind of a, um. Okay.

That's fine. I mean, let it be so. And then what, I can go I could there is some calculations is being done and I want to see what is inside.

Oh, which I found. Uh, because I haven't missed it yet.

Okay. Okay, so, uh. That's right.

Your summation will be 11. Um, yeah.

Um, so, um, I don't know anything more valuable to this. All right.

So now I have calculated. And so you can see this is my object for hierarchical clustering.

And then I am using h plus function I am passing my distance matrix.

What is this math department. Meaning that I am calculating my distances okay.

And then I am using the method is average. You can change method is average.

How you can question mark each class and then you see there are other methods you can choose.

Okay then once I found it then I have to plot it for visualization.

Okay, so I am plotting my um um um, how does it look like?

So if I say plot and I am passing plot function to the hierarchical clustering, and if I do it, it will show me something like this.

Okay. So I am plotting the calculations.

It is showing me something. So do you recall that you have seen similar thing in the last class?

Yeah. You have seen similar things in the last class. You look. But what does it mean?

So these are called dendrogram. Dendrogram. And then and then you can see I mean there are some some distances not based on

the model but you can how do you interpret the if they are close they are called.

The more close they are, they are all related or they are trustworthy.

Okay, now it has produced all the data is a cluster.

No, all of the data is a cluster. So we do not know how many clusters need to choose in this case.

So this is a very subjective decision. Okay, meaning that in this particular example, if I cut my tree.

So we call it the cutting the tree. Okay. If I cut my tree in this distance you will see some specific things will come.

Maybe this will do it. One cluster 2345678.

Something like this. If you go beyond a little bit, let's say I am cutting here.

It is a very big cluster. One cluster will be big one with the sub clusters.

And this will result in out of no. Okay.

If I got here maybe it is three. So it is always a subjective problem in statistical machine learning.

Yeah, especially in the hierarchical one, because here you need to choose your own decision.

How many are optimum. So what people do. People look into the domain.

People see. Um, for example, this is a car, right?

So you can see the name in it. You see Mercedes, all the Mercedes, all the Mercedes.

And you seen it. So this is easy. But then there is another one, Mercedes.

These two are similar. So these two are dissimilar with this guy.

Although they're in the same company, maybe have different versions, different upgradation or whatever.

Okay. Um. Okay, now let's move on to the a little bit more.

Okay. Then if I choose, um. Okay.

So I am trying to fit a kind of a line here. And that's why I called a line H is equal to 1108 for my height.

So I am cutting my tree in 110. So in your in your.

If you have already done it in your um, a figure, the the height is 110 in this case.

But again this is a very subjective color is equal to green. And then and then if I do so uh, um, uh, passing these ones here and then um,

cutting those one in particular one uh, then you can see how many clusters.

So m z. Ah, this is one, this is two. And then.

Okay. And then if I complete the entire one. Okay.

So if I cut in 110, it is producing three clusters.

In these three clusters. Cluster number one is 16 objects within cluster one, cluster two, and only 15, and cluster three only one.

So which is not very I mean, you are not going to develop something with one.

So what do you do with margin to other one. Okay. So if you look at this particular picture how does it look like in this case.

So green color because I put green you choose whatever you like.

But then in this case 110 somewhere in here in between somewhere.

Okay. But then these guys are coming in between. So maybe we can, we can, we can force the algorithm, make me two clusters and then put it.

Either it will be coming there or here. Okay.

And there are different ways people sometimes do some sort of a randomization or something just to decide on where the optimum cutoff.

And there are different ways I think I think I am if you're interested, I can talk about in the next class.

I mean there is a silhouette approach. There is a um, um, mean squared error approach which clusters it is, is going to take into account.

Okay, so is it. This is very simple. Okay. So first you.

You calculate the distance matrix. Then you pass you distance matrix to you you data.

Then from the data you you cut you took some decision how many clusters would be optimal.

Once you know that. And sometimes people also take a multiple different scaling like they would take 9100 IDC okay y axis 9000 110 150.

And they will check how many clusters they get iteratively. How many clusters make sense the study they are doing.

So if you believe, for example, I give one of the example, let's say you are collecting the data from let's say in Birmingham area.

So you can say Birmingham East, Birmingham West, North.

So there might be some kind of different characteristics, different demographics,

maybe the populations are leaving maybe one, one of the one of the cities heavily.

And because as you know, there let me have is one of the multicultural and multi-ethnic group,

maybe one of the South Asian population, mostly distinct.

So then their age groups and occupations may be different from the other ones, maybe.

Okay. So so in that case, we can we can build up the knowledge that like a knowledge driven, uh, class course as well.

Okay. So the ideally what would you take your data and trying to run multiple different algorithms and then see which one is the best in this case.

Okay. Any, any question because I'm going a little bit fast because I hadn't shown you last time.

Uh, but I think I need to tell. Um, these are the basics ones, and but you can also apply other algorithms like K-means as well.

Um, and then and then compare two different clustering methodologies.

Okay. Good. All right.

So, um, we'll go a little bit more on the theoretical side, and then we'll do practical and then we'll finish, uh, today's session.

Um, so let me. Let me pull it out.

Okay. So I'm going to the next copy.

So this is called artificial neural network. All right.

So. Couple of questions.

Why it is artificial. What is neural network?

What have you heard about this? Non. Goodness. And with rain.

Okay. This is good. Have you heard about neural networks?

I think the people who are from computer science definitely don't. Probably you have already know it, but the people, those who are not studied.

But have you heard about this particular name? It's a very, very vibrant topic nowadays.

Very vibrant. Okay. So we will go through some of the basics, not in detail, but then um.

Um, I'll tell you as much you need to analyze your data.

So for example you have got your data. I mean, I mean, I'll tell you in that context.

Okay. So what is happening in the biological neuron.

So if you I mean, those who have studied biology long time and for them it is a refresher.

So you see here this is called um, this is a uh biological example.

So you see there are some nucleus and some of the parts of the neuron.

And then there is a longer axon okay. This is the part.

And then other compartments and then other neuron starts. Okay.

Uh it's a very complex. Uh, complex network in brain.

Very complex. Okay, so people thought we can we can we can take these biologically inspired, uh, phenomena into algorithmic point of view.

Okay. So that was the whole idea of how we can take the capture, um, the biological phenomena into the, um, um, the, the algorithm points.

So what is happening in these kind of a general or dendrite, the all the signal is accumulating, okay.

All the signal getting technology. It comes to the particular in nucleus.

Nucleus. We check if these signal need to be in the next level.

If it is checking and sending then only to be passing through the next level of neuron.

Otherwise not. Okay. And it's happening within him, within many, many micro micro fraction.

Very. I mean, even less than it's like, um, yeah.

So my messages neuron is getting some signals from here.

Those signals will come here. They will jointly accumulate based on the join signal.

The neuron will decide through the signal passing to the next one or not.

And then only it will be passing to the next one. All the connective neurons.

Yeah. All right. So what? People thought, people thought, okay, this is a cool idea, biology.

But then can we represent algorithmically.

So that thought, okay, they can represent algorithmically how we can say that each of the dendrite is receiving some sort of information here.

Okay. For example here some of x1, x2, x3 and the x n these are all the information are coming okay.

No information. So I mean not with some sort of widget okay.

Some sort of a coefficient. They will become so and then what is going to happen?

There will be some sort of a uh, accumulation of those signals, meaning that you can see the summation signal.

Okay. So they will accumulating in these and then and then all the signals will be added up.

Then if there more then some previous signal then only that will going to fire now.

Okay. So again very similar how biological neurons working.

So all the signals are coming being jointly and making is this summation function.

If it is more then it will fire it up and it will go to the next level okay.

So we mathematically we write the f x is a function which is a combination of your input and a weighted.

And then theta is the residual bias, meaning that already some kind of a minimum bias.

You need to fire up these these these neuron okay.

All right.

So, um, again, these particular issues are very mathematical, but then we can also represent these things in a kind of a and a graphical fashion.

Okay. So we call it as an input. Yeah. And then um usually we call it as the input layer.

Okay. These are all input layer. And then there is something called hidden here.

Some of the uh um um calculations are going and then uh, we are, are receiving the output in this particular one.

Okay. So you can count how many nodes. So input layer one node two three node.

You can each of the both representing the nodes okay.

In hidden layer consist of 12345 nodes. And output is considering two nodes in this case okay.

So hidden layer uh except the vector for the pattern.

Um uh sorry input layer. Uh, except the data vector or the pattern uh hidden layer except output from the previous layer.

And it's like um, um, it's like a continuation. It's like a continuation.

So that's how signals propagate you. All right.

So these are very theory. I mean I mean they the people say, um, this is um, very complex.

I mean, of course this is a complex process, but what you get out of it is, um, um, um, sophisticated way of passing the information.

And, um, and one of the good thing is that, um, um, um, the artificial neural network also can use for the, uh, the non-linear function.

So it's not only always linear, but also sometimes we can get non-linear way of, uh, uh, getting those functions.

Okay. So now, um, in in this process, people are using many, many different functions, which is um, how neuron to activate.

And these are called activation function. There are mostly three different functions.

What is sigmoid functions. One is the tan hyperbolic and another is the ReLU function.

So those functions are very critical in the neural network context.

And if you go further down in the deep learning settings those functions are very very important.

And we can fuse those functions in the in a in a mathematical formulation formulation.

Okay. So for example here you can see how, uh, the, the function look like.

In this case sigmoid is like as, as name said, it's like a um, um s shape function then hyperbolic function.

Uh, so these are the meaning. These are the meaning based on the signal, um, for example, a brain function.

And it is always taking maximum of zero and one. For example it is a one.

The only neuron is going to fire up. If it is negative it is not going to be doing anything okay.

So each of them has got their different characteristics.

And ReLU is one of the most actively or most frequently using um activation function in this context.

Okay. Um. Yeah.

So. So this is, um, we can we can we can put an algorithmic way either in Python in our, uh, in both the settings.

Okay, so, um, I think I kind of said it, so there are, um.

Um, I've shown it could be multiple different layers. Uh, not only one layer.

And we can decide how many layers we need to take, uh, take into account how many functions we're going to take into account everything.

We can we can decide. And based on the decisions, we can fit the model.

Okay. Uh, and then I think I think if you recall, there was not sure I have talked about in the, uh, this one.

So I ml deep learning, I think I have talked about, um, maybe not last last two plus before these are very, um, associated um, uh, domains.

Um, one of them are part of AI, so people call it I sometimes they use it very interchangeably.

Sometimes. Yeah, sometimes they use ML. And the idea there are similar context.

Okay. Uh, deep learning is very, very specific in that case.

And if people are talking about deep learning, they are definitely using uh in and okay.

And and is the basis for deep learning methodology. So deep the deep the word deep meaning in that case there have been many, many different layers.

So deep okay. If it is in in in simple in in there might be only one layer or one layer in the process.

Okay. This is a nice review paper came up. Bye bye.

Uh, do you know this guy? Last one. Geoffrey Hinton.

Have you heard about? Name? His name? Geoffrey Hinton.

Who heard about his name. And it would. No.

So Geoffrey Hinton got a Nobel Prize, I think last year, two years before, for his discovery in deep learning based methodology.

So he's the first one who got Nobel Prize, and he cannot be for deep learning.

But in the game in terms of physics. Yeah.

So they gave in terms of physics. And he's the a kind of a he developed all the basis I think around uh, ten years, ten years, 15 years before.

Okay. So he's from Canada, University of Toronto. Um, uh, developed quite a lot of things in this area.

Okay. All right. So these are these are very theory.

But then we have to do a little bit of theory. So. So the thing is that why I mean we are using deep learning.

So if you if you look at the data you can see that I mean the amount of data and performances,

I mean if you compare all other methodologies and there should be some reason like GPT and many, many other things.

These are all predictions. Right? So so they are generating that they are generating via they are they are generating sequences.

Yeah. Um, but how they are generating based on the information you're providing.

Yeah. The more information you provide they have more different options.

Your text will be, uh, organized equities. Okay.

So if so, it's like a you are providing information, meaning that you are giving the training data.

Okay. So the more training data you are providing that the program will find more and more way to produce the different types of output.

Okay. Now it has been shown. I mean, you might be already knowing the deep learning methodologies, like going in a tangent and,

uh, and because of the amount of data, because of many, many other things in this case, um, okay.

So uh, the differences so differences is, is very clear.

I mean, if you use an N, this is the one hidden layer. I mean, not good at learning.

Wait, so many layers and it becomes very complex if it is a deep, deep learning methodology,

sometimes people use multiple different layers, but with also sophisticated activation functions.

Okay. Um. Yeah.

So there are many, many different, uh, deep learning models.

Um, in this case, the feedforward learning and the convolutional neural network is recurrent neural network gives a lots of memory and methodology.

So these are in detail. Um, probably uh, I won't see maybe next how much we can cover.

But there are different there are many different types.

Okay. For example, people are using a lot of convolutional neural network for image based analysis.

If you want to, uh, do the prediction or image analysis, that is why people are using a lot learn um,

and Lstm methodology people are using for uh, longitudinal data.

For example, one, uh, individuals are coming. They are coming many, many different times in the bank, which is very realistic.

People are using for predicting the stock market and meeting LSTMs is one of the thing uh, people are using heavily.

Yeah. Okay. So what we will do, we will do some practicals as well.

So in this case, um, I think um, I go back to the canvas here.

Uh, in that case, um, if you look into the canvas, you will find in, um, and then again,

we maybe you can try yourself and, and I will tell you what to do in this case.

Um, so the script you should look at. The script you should look at.

Uh, let me see if we should.

Artificial neural network script. Yeah. That one. So in that case, um, this is a very similar data.

So which is, uh, we are going to fit a model in this case, regression model.

Um. That's truly. Yeah.

So in this case we are going to use some regression model.

And then we are going to split the data. So. So principal of ML method remains the same.

Data splitting data scaling data splitting then then training and then testing.

So if you look into that perspective I think it will be benefited more.

So this is a regression. So neural net you are training as a regression.

And then you will check um how this model is behaving in that case.

It's stupid. We.

And both. This means people.

Um. Um, um. Um, we need to continue with changing.

Obviously, you only have to two people.

Working for multiple companies.

And then. Loading free University.

4.46324. He's.

Can you? I think we're just inverting the.

Okay? Because once again, we're just learning.

Pokemon. And some of the things.

I've learned in my. Is looking for.

Something to spooky with.

Three to. You invited them.

It's all in love, you know. I'm going to do one more thing that you think a lot of.

Up. This is not the general.

I can confirm that you have a voice. And if you want to do anything you don't, you might as well don't.

You have a. Chance to do the right thing.

Even though. But you remember the things I don't know.

You can't solve them. I don't know.

Why did you leave? And then after that.

So it's been really. This one's going to be.

Probably. You.

Know, we can actually prove to you that we didn't really have to say on the new novel.

This is more suited for evaluating the food.

I think Jane's eating meat. We're doing it usable externally from people.

I think that's because living up to that means that you.

So we, um. You know, getting, you know, stuff and then.

Using. In his own reasons. It's mostly because I think it's beautiful, because some of the the data for that is right now know, what does this mean?

How do you. Who knew how they wanted to do.

This. But. We certainly did not do so.

All. Right.

Come back. All right. I have to think.

Look down. You think you know something? You mean we ever do any of these things?

You. Okay. We're in that up.

So I'm going to see him and then we can get on with the game.

And then we'll call you up.

So in this particular example you have noticed something very strange.

Like like I am forcing as a numeric. Yeah. Yeah yeah.

Because I don't want the ah should confused with the character.

So I forced it. So so these zero one sometimes are taking as it is a character or maybe class.

So I don't want to actually do it. So I forced it to take it up to take it as a numeric.

That's way as numeric meaning that I'm forcing this column. Okay.

And then what I'm doing, I'm scaling the data because I need to scale the data to compare,

because I am going to compare the coefficients or something in this in this framework.

So scaling meaning Z-score. Okay.

Mean substract divide by standard deviation okay.

And then what I'm doing I am I'm splitting. So this part is very familiar right.

And I am I have already done for other ones. Exactly same.

And this function is coming from the carried function. That's why you need to get it.

Okay. Boston scale and mdb mdb.

You have used it in last class as well. Okay.

In that is an outcome variable. So that's what I'm doing here. Yeah.

So two data sets training and testing. Um, split it and then you are checking.

You are checking the dimensions of the data. So as I said, this is a good practice.

You check how many samples you will take into account. Okay.

Once you do it, this is a bit exception in this case.

In this case, actually I am not using it for my training or anything else.

I am using the neural net function. Okay, so as you can see here, this is neural net the model.

And in dot model this neural net function is coming from neural net picking not from correct.

And there is a specific reason for that because I also want it to visualize how my layers look like.

The carrot doesn't allow me to do. Okay, so once you run.

Anybody got any any nice neural network figure? Anybody running already or not?

That's great. Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. So you'll you'll see that.

Yeah. And the other thing is that you can see here, you can see here I have written as an additive one.

You know, all the equations are additive, know all the parameters I have.

It kind of added up. Because the dot function doesn't work in the neural net package.

So I have to literally make program understand that this is happening.

Okay. What is the benefit?

I mean discuss the benefit is that you are going to see some kind of a, uh, architecture of Intel in and you will see the architecture.

Yes. Yeah. I.

Yeah, I just do that. You do that? Yeah.

So these I mean, if anybody got architecture, you can see what is happening in those architectures.

You can see the weight. You can see how things are happening in detail.

In carrot package. You cannot get this figure this way. I thought maybe it is interesting to show these one.

Sometimes people copy paste only this figure just to show the architecture this problem.

You know. I have my assistant five.

Thank you. Stop listening to me.

No one is going to travel. Speaking of, because it hasn't nothing to do with me.

I'm just, you know, being, you know. And.

From the storm from the small island can just.

More. Made one.

Women. So I know why it is important to.

Like. Yeah. And when there's another. I you trying to get, you know.

Nothing that that sounds about. Yeah, but it does run it.

Does it? Nobody likes it.

Anything. Oh, how we can even take it?

Yeah. This includes.

You come into the. All the money can.

It's often used, but it's not. Came.

That's a deep. This.

Is for to. So I.

Oh. Excuse me, sir.

Goal in my. Also listen closely.

He. It's something. Um um hum, um hum, um hum um hum um hum um hum, um hum.

That's going to keep you. This is one.

So I thought that was no. Problem for both of.

Us. I'll leave it at that.

But on this one, you didn't have any. But for the.

Both of you. Just so you know, a lot of.

People come over. Yeah. Well, I wanted to.

Thank you. For being with.

I do this for the.

We just need to. Mm.

Who doesn't? Okay. Yeah. It was a categorical feature.

Okay. Anybody got this type of figure? Yeah. Yeah.

What does it tell? Well, he was with you.

Yeah. Well, what is telling you? The signals are slim. Okay.

Signals are coming from all the features, right? And then? And then.

So. Yeah. And then you can see the numbers.

What is numbers is telling you something with it.

Yeah. So these are your estimated weight. Yeah.

And then this is accumulation. And then this is the. Combined score.

And then it is predicting MDB. This is your response variable right?

So the MDB is a regression context in this case.

And then it will compare. But this gives you a very nice overview of the architecture.

Yeah. Architecture. We can change those things in a neural network function.

Yeah. Okay. So, uh. Okay if I will minimize.

The significance of the significance. If you haven't done so, please let me in.

Okay. It's been, you know, it's been like one, two numbers, actually.

So you mean the from the figure, the. These are estimated weights.

Okay. So. So you remember, um.

What we doing? So let's see you white. Okay. Why is your MDB.

Yeah. Okay. And then you are putting all these measurements here.

Those like a and other thing. So you are you are estimating how much more efficient they are getting.

Okay. So these are the coefficients estimated from the neural network.

So neural net is saying these are the weight times your each.

All of them will combine. So remember this summation symbol I, I have shown somewhere the summation symbol.

So these are all added up. And then they are going to predict mdb UI.

So they will check what is the weight you are going to get. How much weight it will be going to get is negative positive and these values.

Okay. Um, so and then what is happening you can see the further computations.

Um, it. This is the N in model.

And then you are predicting on the test set. So what is your testing sample.

So your testing samples you already um you already calculate it right.

The testing. So testing is your testing samples. I am taking only one to uh, 14, 1 to 13.

Um, uh, those numbers, the positions. Because those are my my, um.

Uh, if so, let's let let's look into this one dimension of the testing so that.

Okay, let's look into the dimension. Yeah.

So. So actually the fourth one is your MDB.

So you are not predicting the Y versus Y, but then you are predicting the measurements.

Yeah. That is why it is 1 to 13. Okay. And then you are.

In this object on underscore are you are you are you are storing all the values and then you are kind of chopping those values.

So this is your predicted value okay. And then you are making the differences.

So predicted versus testing how much error the model is making.

So you remember root mean square in this case square root mean square okay.

You can also take if I do not use the square root that is fine okay.

We can also use the root mean square error. So this is the error you are getting from your model.

So in ideal scenario if you use random forest, if you use neural network if you use the.

So can you compare all the rows. You can. If you can compare then which model you are going to take.

Lowest the lowest one. Okay.

So so this is this is the way actually you should think about when you're approaching the problem okay.

So. So yeah. And this is a brief example we can optimize.

We can we can decide how many nodes we can take. We can decide how many layers.

Um, maybe in the next class what I will do, I will ask you to optimize those neural network based approaches towards.

Okay. And I will ask you, um. If you can compare 2 or 3 different methods so they can be useful for your assignment.

It's. So you, uh, maybe take one data, or maybe I give you data, the number,

and then you apply three different models, and then you tell me which model is is better.

Maybe one group will be doing classification, one group will do regression.

And then you develop those scripts already so that we use those scripts for uh, for your assignment.

Okay, so we'll stop it here. So we stopped here.

Yeah. But, um, we, as I said, reflect on how you are going to interpret.

Yeah. So if you if you present something in the, um, like some way, uh, people will ask you the interpretation.

So most people, uh. Yeah, I know this is this is this is heavy stuff.

I mean, I mean, for two reasons. One would be the difficulty levels is, is is high.

But also, I mean, if you don't have any knowledge of background and coming, it will be a problem.

And then if you miss the class then the top of it. Yeah.

So I think I have two more questions. Yeah.

So uh, in the next week we are definitely going to do that. Okay. So it's like a whatever you call it hackathon or I don't know what you call it.

So I, I'm not going to tell you which data I am randomly given to rules.

Okay. And then you compare three methods randomforest neural net lasso or regression to the right.

That's your understanding okay. Great. Thank you. See you next week I all they are hoping people will be able to.

