[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Okay. Good morning, everyone. Um, I think we should start.

So, uh, from the last class, what you've seen, what are the different methods?

You have looked at. So we have looked at multiple different, um, supervised algorithms.

Um, one of the algorithms was based in based on um, decision trees.

Um, then we have moved into the random forest, which is multiple different trees.

Um, then we looked at neural net.

Um, which is also very different types of methodology.

So one of the methods based on the tree recognition that is based on the different combinations of the features and modeling.

Um, we have seen multiple different models, multiple different, uh, layers.

We have seen um input if we want to give the input how the data is processing and then as it as a consequence you get some predictions.

Yeah. We all we have also seen um some of the.

Problems based on the glasses. Yeah. Some of the, um, that can predict the glasses.

Some of them can also predict that the Clinton was often variable.

Okay. Um, so we have seen them in many, many kind of different types of philosophy.

So today we are going to look at something called SVM, which is which is called Support Vector Machine.

Um this is another type of methodology.

So uh, in this course. We started with linear model.

Linear model is is a motivated by, uh, the statistical model mainly.

And then we have looking to the lasso ridge elastic net regression type of approaches.

Then decision tree based approaches then neural net based approaches.

And now we are looking something different okay something different.

And then we are going to talk about today about SVM. So what what is the SVM.

SVM is is actually um as I mentioned it is a supervised algorithm and can be used for classification and regression both.

Yeah. Meaning if your data has a class meaning either binary class or multiple different class, SVM can be useful to predict the classes.

Yeah, okay. Or also maybe you if you have a quantitative data.

Yeah. Meaning that quantification maybe age and maybe um frequency or many many different other outcome variable you can also use for SVM as well.

Okay. Now the the thing is the, the principle um, of SVM is little bit different from um, uh, the other methodologies.

Okay. So other methodologies, if you think about that, um, the linear model using the plot, using the line for class is not.

So if, if by using a line you can.

So what I mean by using a line. So for example and if you if I say you know different data sets okay you have two different data sets.

So let's say this is zero zero space and rows represent one type of data.

Uh and and uh maybe and zero represent.

Literary press and other. So if you could, you could make a line.

No. Once you make a line, you can say, okay, this is my class. So this is maybe class one and this is the class two.

Okay, so it is to always fitting a line here.

So this is the way a linear models work. If you make a decision tree based.

So they would make a decision tree like decision boundary okay.

Some kind of a boundary this type of thing okay. If you can see.

So so either one class versus another class it will make some sort of a decision okay.

Binary tree for decision. Um now in this particular case, um, I will show you it's, um, it is very useful when data is not linearly separable.

Okay. What you mean by linearly separable? Okay. Uh, let me explain to you.

What do you mean by linearly separable? Okay.

So, for example, if I, if I give you. If I give you this example, let's say again I'm putting a similar kind of that's two different.

So this is a class okay. In this class. Binary class problem.

Okay. And then if you have any situation here, let's say.

Okay. So think about this.

In this particular case, the cross. Cross means one data point.

Let's say maybe. Yes. No. Okay. Maybe yes. And round four.

No. So yes. Representing maybe one. No means zero.

Okay. Represent. Yes. No. As a 1 or 0. Okay.

Now think about these two situation here. What is the difference between these?

What is the difference between these two figures? That is simple.

Yeah. Can you make a straight line? Yeah. And make it simple. No.

Yeah. You cannot make a straight line to make it separate. So this is the major differences here.

So here this is very nice. Well I mean better actually compared to this one.

What is happening here. There are two misclassification. Yeah.

These two guys should have been here but then they are staying here. So this is called misclassification.

Yeah the wrong guys are here. They should have been here.

So this is the misclassification happen. But by putting a straight line we can put.

But in this case it is doesn't matter how you put the straight line up.

You get a lot of misclassification. Let's say I am putting it here.

So if yeah if you put it here what will happen on the 50%.

Is misclassification so not useful. Okay in this case.

Or you can say that, you know, I'm gonna put it like this and put these in.

This is also a lot of classification. So we call it is it not linearly separable.

I mean meaning that I mean by linear linear approach you cannot separate two different classes.

Yeah. Um. So what people are saying that actually you can, um.

Um, you can use SVM. You can use SVM when data is not linearly separable.

Okay. So this is the basic principle. So how does it work. I mean let me explain you I mean I think I'm trying to explain a little bit.

So um, for example here, I mean two classes.

No you would you get. Yeah.

You can, you can make it. Make it plain. Okay, so for example, um, if you, if you kind of, um, you can make a separator like these,

like these, like these, there are many, many different ways. Yeah. You can, you can make a separator.

Okay. Um, and, and this is something I mean, I mean, you know, um, um, maybe I'll go to the, uh, I'll come back to this one.

Okay. So the idea is, you mean this is very similar to this one?

So what? I'm I'm I don't do different. Don't actually I don't do similarly.

Okay. So because it is not a linearly separable what you can do, you can map all the data in a high dimensional space and then make a separable.

Okay. So what you can do here this is so you you make a transformation of the data.

And you make it. You make it some kind of a projection.

So this is the projection. This is the projection, you mean. Okay.

Projection. After you projecting the data, they make something like this, okay.

They become separable. Okay, something like this.

And then you can be. So the whole idea of SBM we should use as the endpoint, the data is not linearly separable okay.

We call it is that one data is a nonlinear in a way.

And then if it is a nonlinear relationship you project it and then you separate and then you go back in a political dimension.

So exactly. Same happening here. Okay. Looks like these are the two features.

And then these are all the data here. You do some mapping function or projection after you project D then you separately.

You can see this is a two different colors are very nicely isolated.

Okay. Well, of course the question is how you're going to separate.

And this is the deal. Okay. There are many different ways you can use a mapping function.

This mapping function can be anything. Okay. We talked about how we can make it this one.

But the basic principles of SVM when data is not linearly separable and happens a lot in the in the finance domain.

It happens a lot. I mean, because data will not be distributed.

Normally distributed. You know, the very complex. Okay.

It will be very complex.

And so in that case, what is going to happen is that you cannot separate it and you will be put in your argument saying that, okay.

Um, um, um, my, my model predictability is very low.

Okay. Because you might have used only linear model, but you data is very complex in such cases.

SVM works very wonderful. Okay.

It's been very wonderful because what you will do, it will convert the data in every other space.

Do the job. Come back to the space. And again, this is the principle.

You don't have to do anything differently. There are different functions. There are different scripts.

There are different packages which will do it for you. Okay. But basic principle is like that.

We talk about how we map those functions okay. Later on.

Okay. Yeah. And when we, um, you know, when we do the projection.

Yeah. Have you been talking about the mapping function? I mean, for example, in the second half, we see that, um, it's very well classified.

Yes. Yes. Is that what that information does with magneto ideation or with something missing?

You know, the mapping function should. It's the only the mapping function.

We do it. We try to project it in a high dimension where you can isolate.

So here you cannot use anything okay. And you can use some kind of a linear function to or some line to make classification.

Now all I am saying that. How it would be looking like.

Depends on the making function. Okay. How it would be looking like.

So you don't if too many iterations. I mean iterations would be doing for you and estimating cross-validation and estimating already.

So that part remains same. That part remain.

See what all I am seeing? You can project the entire data in a new space.

And then you do your job and come back to your original state.

Okay. Um. So, I mean, there are some of the terminologies.

I mean, I'm going back to this one. So for example, here, I mean, if I go, uh, like this, uh, so SVM maximizes around the separating the hyperplane.

So the thing is that the way it works once once you you project in high dimension, then you can put in different plane.

So we're not talking about because if it's a high dimension, we don't talk about a line.

We talk about the plane. And people call it as a hyperplane.

Okay. People call it is a hyperplane. Okay. So um, and there is a very strong mathematical solution exist.

So I'm not discussing the mathematical equations. You can see here. Uh solving SVM is a quadratic solving problem.

And it is a uh,

mostly coming from optimization theory where people are comparing different functions and trying to organize something around those lines.

Okay. So. So what? All it is, it is doing.

So for example here you can you can make your plane like these. You can make your plane like this as well.

So to make a plane um, first of all it will try to find a boundary.

So these are your data points and these are data points.

And you can find your boundary. And then it will optimize those boundary to fit a plane there okay.

And we call it as a maximizing the margin. Uh, in that context.

So for example, here, if you if you are putting your plane, um,

kind of a smaller so you can see this is touching one one of the data point here, touching another data point here.

So you can you can rotate your plane and optimize around those lines.

Okay. All right. So, um, there are different types of the SVM.

So one is the linear SVM and nonlinear SVM okay. So linear SVM we use one data is linearly separable okay.

So linearly separable. This first version would be very compatible with your other regression type of

or classification type of approaches because the data is linearly separable.

The second approach which is nonlinear SVM, they use the kernel function.

I don't know if you know about kernel function. Kernel function is is the mapping function.

Actually the mapping function is is equivalent to the kernel function in this case.

Okay. Now, people in the literature they use for different types of mapping function.

Number one, they use linear program. Second, they use polynomial kernel, radial basis and sigmoid function.

And these are the the four different kernel. I mean I mean uh, I brought these okay.

Uh, people tend to use this one a lot. Uh, add a kernel, uh, or linear these two, um, and these two would be first and third one.

They, they tend to use um. In the in the lead.

Based on the literature. Okay. Um, so here, here, here goes here which mapping function you are going to choose.

This is always a problem, you know. So problem because there is no hard and fast rule.

You have to use particular one. It depends on your um um objective depends on many many different factors.

But in, in such cases, as I am saying, um, radial basis function is one of the universal function people tend to use.

Okay. Now, if you recall.

Hyperparameter. So, so so, uh, going back to the concepts of hyperparameter, each of the model,

each of the method, they have a different extra parameter unit optimize.

Okay. For example, you have seen in the lasso and elastic net lambda.

Okay. In the in the in the random forest the number of trees need to be splitting in.

Okay. So these are the decisions you need to make when you use the method.

In the SVM. There are three different ways of doing hyperparameter.

The first one is regularization parameter meaning that si see something.

It controls a how much weight of the plane you should take into account.

Okay. Then gamma. Gamma is determining how much influence a single data point here.

So these are for example gamma using radial basis kernel.

So in the radial basis kernel you need to optimize your gun kernel choice improves the model ability and your better.

So meaning as I said I mean the thing is if you are using the radial basis kernel, maybe your problem is um already linearly separable.

But, uh, but but the thing is, you will not know before uEFI, okay.

So if you apply then only you know how the comparison between the at least two.

For example, if you use radial basis kernel, if you use um, um linear kernel, and then you compare two different, uh,

kernel modeling techniques, then only, you know, otherwise you it, it will be very hard to know what is happening there.

Okay. So kernel choice impact the model quality as well okay.

Now in this case there are uh advantages and disadvantages.

So for example if it is a high dimensional non-linear problem um it is quite good.

Yeah. In this case and many of them. And I'll show you in a minute.

Uh, um, I put some papers for you to read, and it will help you massively in your assignment.

Okay. I go through it and you will see that one of the things they talk about, um,

disadvantage is very computationally intensive because you need to optimize many, many parameters.

Um, so we tend to be quite, uh, quite heavy in this case. Okay.

Um, and then it is interpretability something we have talked about, something called interpretable AI.

It is not enough to make a model, but you need to also also you to interpret the model.

How does it go. So this is called the interpretable AI or explainable AI.

Now these people are talking a lot. Um it is very difficult to to interpret okay.

These are not just regression coefficients or anything.

So that you can, you could interpret, um, but other than that SVM is very, very competitive with random forest sometimes.

Okay. So um, so if you go back, uh, to your canvas, you will see, um, I'm just trying to get into canvas.

Okay. We'll do a very maybe we'll do a quick practical and then we'll go to the canvas.

Um. Okay as we two. So if you go in canvas 18 merge.

If you go to the canvas 18th March and you can see there is a call R script SVM.

Okay. So if you can if you can just practice this one, maybe next, uh 15 20 minutes.

And then I would like to talk about some case studies. Okay.

So if you if you download your scripts trying to run in your, in your system and let me know how does it working.

So maybe I'll guide you in between as well. Uh back to control.

Why I can't. Do.

Okay, so what we are doing here, we are, um, using the same, uh, kind of a dummy data.

In this case, we are we are putting the library. So one of the library name is E1071.

Okay. So this are library. You need to install these. They might have dependencies multiple dependent dependencies.

So allow all the dependencies okay. And then we put in some C.

And then you have used many times this this particular function created a particle.

So this is not very much unfamiliar. Uh so you will be missing this one.

So created a partition. We are taking different topic.

The outcome variable with probability 0.8 meaning that 80% to 80%.

Speaking with very fine tuning this data, we are, uh, controlling.

In this case we are using repeated CV ten times and and setting the read.

Okay. So if you and then we are we are going to search some optimum parameter using the delete search.

Okay. And then we will be taking combination between C and um.

There was another parameter uh regularization parameter. Right.

So gamma c and gamma okay. Um and then we will take the optimum value, optimum value we need to put into the model.

And then we will rerun the analysis. Okay, so if you can do quickly.

Okay. So, um. I mean, if you if you go further in the script, you can see that, um,

we have kind of a U in the parameters sigma and C sigma and C, these are hyper parameter.

In this case you can see the peak searching which lines best combination.

We are taking those combinations. And then we're using the radial basis function in this case.

Yeah. But you and then what is happening is we are model.

We are training okay. Data train data. So data is feeding is the training data here.

Uh method. Right. Uh SVM radial basis okay.

So radial basis kernel we are using you can replace this radial basis by linear as well.

Okay. This is very general way of writing the script. So meaning that if you change something.

It will, it will, it will call particular. Um.

Colonel? Yeah. Train control. The train control and the train control is defined already.

What is train control? So repeated content warning all the things we blended here.

We are pre-processing the data center and scaled, meaning that z transformation is done the data.

And then doing rate is going to be SVM d. So it's been read. You can see here has been read.

We are expanding and we are passing those SVM here okay.

And then we are printing the best model. You can see multiple different speeding things in the model.

And all the different combinations are here. Okay.

Um and then based on the best model we are doing the predictions okay.

So predict has the model new data is equal to test data meaning that you are you are using the test data for prediction.

And then we are printing confusion metric.

So confusion metrics predictions test data species meaning that we are trying to estimate that what is happening in the test data.

So all the parameters you might have seen um a accuracy many, many other parameters are coming in this process.

Okay. So. First of all, you might recognize it doesn't matter which method you use.

The flow remains the same. No, you you you partition the data.

You you do some quality control. You partition the data, you optimize the parameter.

You took the best parameter you put on the on that kind of, um, uh, in the model.

And then you take it from there and then what you do, you bring.

On the test set. The the architecture of the flow, meaning the data analysis flow remains same.

It doesn't change anything. What? It changes the method.

It changes hyper parameter. It changes many, many other factors associated with particular one.

Okay, so I think it is something to realize. So meaning that if you know how to organize your thoughts.

It doesn't matter which method you are using.

It really doesn't matter if you are using one particular one or the other one or something something else.

Um, because your argument will change, your flow will not change.

So, for example, it doesn't matter which method we use. People will ask you what is the predictability?

If it is a classification problem, in this case, your predictability will be kind of a um.

Um, determined by F1 score accuracy.

Um um uh, AUC value. Sensitivity of the model specificity.

All those numbers. If it is a regression model, you your your model will be evaluated by your R-squared value.

MCP mean squared error prediction. Those type of estimates.

So you need to get those estimates anyway. Okay.

So I mean, I mean, I hope you have you kind of m and, uh, kind of understood not point by point.

I mean, it's not the point. I mean point in the sense, um, and the architecture is important, not the very detailed information, for example, here.

I mean, I'm using the data, a particular data set, it doesn't matter which it I use.

No. If it is outcome variable, you should able to do that. That's one thing.

The second thing is that you're using SVM radial basis kernel.

So the question is if you use another kind of SVM. And the third question would be is there any significant differences between two different methods.

Okay. Um. Okay. Now, one of the thing is here.

That new new data. New data. Test data. Now, you remember, um, the test data is dependent on the splitting.

Sometimes the 20% of the data is maybe very, very different from the rest of your distribution.

So what to do in this case? So the question is, um, if you think about the data set sometimes, like what is going to happen?

So given you have a data set here. And you have done partition of the data.

So data partition. And then what do we have in here?

As a consequence. Let's say.

One sample is coming from here. So those are representing your samples or object or individuals.

Okay. So this is the data the maybe you have got.

Like a few of them. So let's say I'm trying to make a big thick.

Declined. So three objects. Okay. And then maybe for pool samples.

You are pretty. And these are the pretty random.

So let's say this is zero number fool number two uh, one and three.

So these out of when you read a speeding. These symbols you are going to predict.

So you are going to predict only on these guys.

One. Number four. Uh, number two.

Uh, number one. And. Are.

So and then maybe, maybe you have let's say 50 and then I'm just reducing 1 to 20 number of them.

So that's it. Now tell me what's the problem in this case.

So you have given an 80% in 20% you are predicting on 20% samples and 20% maybe only this four.

What could be the problem in your model or approach?

So. Because it is randomly generated.

So you run once. Run number one.

Or maybe iteration number one. Iteration two. Or run or iteration two.

It will change? No, because it is randomly generated. Individual.

So in the next iterations, if you run again, unless you do center of C, unless you do center of C.

What did happen. Maybe number five is coming here now.

Predicted number ten. 11 and maybe number one.

Okay, now it is predicting this one. Now what I what I'm trying to tell you.

Each time. And these are very different. No, only one is common between these two.

Only. Only one is common. We can do. But. Those.

Those guys might be very different distribution from rest of the samples when you train your data.

So if you distributions are very different you are not going to get good results.

So for example, that 3D. And this is a actually machine learning problem, which is not enough.

So for example your distribution training distribution like these,

your test distribution like this meaning your very different distribution significantly different.

You tend to get a if it is a similar like this that's fine. Okay?

Because you what? So you believe your data is coming from population, right? Then you are sampling.

So if you are sampling those. So this is a very crude concept of statistics.

You you have population you sample. You believe your sample is representative of your population.

That's all okay. But in such cases what is going to happen.

Maybe some of the samples or some of the your your individuals might be behaving very differently.

And unfortunately those guys are actually you are doing prediction.

So your prediction is not going to be good or you prediction are too good.

How we can overcome that situation. It's not about metal.

It's more about the structure of the machine learning thing. You know what I mean?

So how we can get how we can mitigate these affect. Cross-validation.

The cross-validation. Okay, that could solve some extent, but again, I'm looking for something more concrete.

What else you could do. So ideally ideally ideally the solution is about.

Okay. Ideally I'm telling the solution. Remember, we did 80%.

20%, right? 80% and 20%.

But we have run only one thing. The ideal way.

You should have run five times if it is 100 samples. I increased, I think, to see when we get the same distribution every day.

No, we are not setting the seed will be setting the seed so that we can run five times and then at least one time one individual predicted.

So 20% of the sample size in the testing.

We estimate these. Then next run again a T20, but then in this case non-overlapping, non-overlapping individuals.

So meaning did not have a link, meaning that the individuals which go on for testing or not contribute.

We are not taking those guys from that 80% 8020.

8020, 81. We need to give the logic like we need to put it on that.

That shouldn't take from the 20. Yes, we have to get this. Yeah.

Of course. So what? Well I'm not. No you're not. No, no, not that one.

Not 82. So what's the first iteration? So let's say 80.

Um. 80% is gone for training and 20% for testing.

Okay, let's say these are big guys. Okay. Assuming these are the guys in the next run, you again 2020.

But then you don't need to call. Don't consider these guys again. Only take the full one, but then the new one.

You see. You are, you are considering the new, new, new one.

But then these are already in the population now. So you can you can do it.

I mean, all you do this time. Yeah, yeah. That's it. You just do the 510.

So what I'm trying to say that you need to do multiple times to reassure you predictability is not by us.

You understand what I'm saying in the meeting? No, I mean, what I'm saying that in the first we think about this example.

So let's say in 40% the 44th one and three is there.

Okay. Okay. And that is data in the test data in the second time.

Again I'm doing the same thing. But then I am not considering I am considering three, five and eight.

Going to think I. Oh no sorry. Okay we can but but in this case probably not.

Okay. Seven. So this is a separate separate one. In the next one I'm doing again.

So I'm doing maybe 13. 23. Nine.

Eight. Oh. So. McNulty. In this case, I'm repeating myself.

Uh, maybe two. I want to make money before.

Before. So computing is there in between. Okay, some random number.

So random is not random from the broken left. Okay. So here.

So each time you are getting different estimates. Yes. Know that next 20% in the first 80%.

Yeah. Yes. That's fine that this one was considering training for this one.

This fine. That is fine. But when you test, you are predicting, right?

But then if you people then we are looking engaging and no.

Yes, there might be possibility.

I mean I mean I'm just saying the cross validation, if you are epoc you are you are talking maybe the neural network is right in the middle, you know.

Yeah. So there will be a time when there will really be.

There will be time. There will are think that maybe that the random is not very random actually.

But what all I'm saying that given you the 100 individual next to 100 individual, each time you take different individual for testing.

At least you can rent their space so each individual.

Predicted one ticket. If you run 1000 9000 times each patient or each sample's predicted,

so you can estimate your standard error, you can estimate mean value of your error.

You can estimate all the other things you can like.

It means that they think that is close to this. Yes, you know that.

That's whole point. So the point I'm trying to make, I mean, if you sometimes I have seen papers,

if I'm doing random paper, then this random 20% or 30%, maybe just by chance you are getting.

So it is good idea to explore entire population.

That's all I'm trying to say. Okay. And then we can do it.

I mean, in therapy, we can. We can make it all different strategies.

I did not really get flirty that well. Okay. This is all the testing set.

We are not. We are not capturing. That the real training data.

Okay, now that's two different things. Sometimes.

Yes, yes. If you do too much, it might be overfitting.

But then you will you will get a variance as well. Now you can estimate what are the variance.

The ideal way to test overfitting one if you have a two different dataset.

So what do you do? You have a data one. Okay.

You do all the 80%, 20%, all the strategy. Just now I have shown your model is ready.

Now you take another data. Two and you fit.

See how much predictability. This data has not been used at all in training.

So you get rid of the overfitting problem in this case? Yes, certainly.

But this is very hard sometimes. But you know people that handling availability.

So what people do you give any data. They completely keep every one of the same.

So they don't use maybe 20% at all. And they work always 80%.

And then as if they have a 100% within the 80% and then do the studies.

Okay, so there are different strategies. Please look into that. Um.

Um, and um, and, and trying to practice what um, now I'm trying to do if you go to the canvas, you will see I put some papers.

Uh, this is the thing I wanted to discuss a bit. Um. So there was a paper, very nice paper and very relevant for your thesis.

And the thesis. I mean, your assignment, um.

I mean, it's. And that is.

Case studies. Yeah. So if you go to the case studies.

And the first one is clustering approaches for financial data analysis.

Okay. You can see it. Yeah. So this is from someone from University of Cork.

Uh, University of Dublin, actually, um, if you go to the methodology section,

you can see what are the different clustering methodologies they have used.

Okay. So they want to really identify different clusters trying to identify the substructure in the population.

Yeah. And you can see there are different criteria they have used.

So they have used DBscan. DBscan is one of the clustering methodology.

Hierarchical. You have learned a hierarchical clustering K-means DBscan is also uh one of the way uh you can do clustering as well.

Okay. Um. Then.

There is one called Business Analytics using random forest trees. And and the credit prediction.

A comparative study. Okay.

So if you if you look into that you will see what are the different ML approaches they have used.

So if you will go to the table number one. They will number one in this particular.

Uh, paper. What is the method they've used? So open the business analytics.

Using random forest trees for credit risk prediction.

A comparison study. Okay.

So if you if you go to the. Table number one.

You see ML approaches for credit risk prediction. The first one is SVM, no support vector machine.

Yeah. Second one is artificial neural network.

Okay feature selection based using an N and symbol n and an evolution so that you can see there are many,

many different methods of use and they compare. Okay.

So in your assignment you can compare. So tomorrow we are going to do something similar somewhat.

Or maybe for 1 hour or 2 hours we will be spending how we can organize some kind of a structure.

And then you can organize similar way in your assignments to. Okay.

Um, then in this particular paper.

Uh, you can see the figure number two.

Figure number two call confusion matrix. And then you can you can see good credit BackGrid how they have classified those one.

So this is a confusion matrix. Everything you can derive from this computation.

Uh confusion matrix actually true positive false positives and AUC precision recall everything all the parameters.

Um, uh, and actually they have mentioned in this particular page pages 24, all the things.

Okay. Uh, also table number three.

So actually, when you were writing, you, someone asked me, you know, uh, ask Arnold actually last week.

What is the structure? These are structural. You can use this paper as your guidelines.

You don't have to use ten different method, but the guideline is very simple.

You generate figures, you generate. Not that the, uh.

The tables. Yeah. Uh, not like, uh, sometimes I see people spend a lot of time like a distribution x, y, z.

But is it the key thing? Probably not. You are something else.

And you? What? You have done maybe 60% of the pre-processing.

No, we don't want that. So make a balance between each of the sections. Huh?

Um. And this paper is actually the guiding point.

So that's why it was not random that that we have selected this paper just to guide you.

And if you are doing your thesis and if you are using any of the statistics or any kind of a predictive algorithms,

you might want to follow the exactly similar one. So you don't have to learn again how to write your thesis using an ML model.

So you kind of leveraging your learning from this module and take it further.

Okay. Um. Yeah, I think this paper is quite nice.

You can you can look into that. I mean, not content wise. They have used as a credit risk.

You might have marketing risk or whatever risk, but method stays the same.

This course is very transferable. Learning. No. You can learn something and apply.

It doesn't matter if someone is not dealing with data coming from. Okay, I mean, you can still apply it.

Yeah. Okay. Uh, so I thought this this one could be very useful, um, if you can go through it.

Uh, and then I think one of the last thing I wanted to say, there is another one which I found quite, quite good, which is, um.

Mhm. Okay.

So that there is one is called sustainability.

Okay. In this case they have used as a regression.

A robust regression based stock exchange forecasting and determination of correlation between stock market.

Okay, so this is a real time kind of thing. Case studies.

So how you can use analytics in the stock market thing.

Okay. So first thing is that you see how they're writing there.

They are kind of writing a little bit of introduction. They're they're articulating the literature a bit.

What people have done and why they're doing the things. Yeah. So you need to be differentiating.

So in your, in your assignment you don't have to do too many things. But then you just setting up the background why you are doing it.

Okay. Uh and then some point they use the uh artificial neural network.

They use mostly artificial neural network model. And, and, um, and they have clearly some of the correlations, some of the mathematical stuffs.

Um, and they compare you can see the table number three, you compare multiple different stock market like a uh, Nasdaq, Google, KFC uh different.

And then and then what is the probability those markets are different.

And then they predicted based on RBC okay.

So these if someone is getting assignment on regression, you might want to explain a bit how you are quantifying your model quality and know um.

Okay, so please do a check. Okay. There is one thing I wanted to say.

I mean, I mean, in this particular, uh, paper, they have used the Excel file.

Please do not use Excel to prepare you figures. I mean, I mean, I mean, this will be a shame.

Come on. Mean, you are doing this module and you're putting your fingers in it too, right?

I mean, you are very human of them. Yeah, so it might take time, but please force yourself to using some Excel gets out of you.

Like if you're doing data, you know there's a difference between data and a data analyst in data analytics.

I mean, you guys can get down to like, more data related. Some people who doesn't know like they use Excel, like.

Yeah, even I see some people are writing, you know, some and very and they're right.

You know, I mean they say transgender people are doing it.

Yeah. So don't use it. This paper in they have used it. Maybe they do not know, but you guys knows it.

I mean that you just need to type something. If you don't know anything to write it, GPT two will give you a prompt.

And you can edit it and that will be a part of your learning. Yeah, please don't use it.

You don't want to see Excel file. And it's very easy to recognize.

Yeah. Like all the figures in this paper. This is a bad example. All the figures like data distribution.

They made it two colors and they just like white. Okay.

Uh, great. So I think I need to stop. I think someone is there or not, I don't know, so we need to stop five minutes before, uh, usually.

So we'll discuss a little bit more tomorrow. And then the idea would be you prepare approximately one hour, 1 or 1 half hour, um, uh, even some data.

And you. You.

You do that? Only make one regression. Group one will be classification and liberty will be one.

And then. So good idea is regression. So make comparing four different models.

And if you can do it you could just replicate what you are saying.

You can finish it within within two three days actually do that.

But that's even more. Yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you.

