[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Uh uh. Two.

Weeks on. I think it's the.

That's a good one. Do you.

Have any questions? Have.

No. Okay.

Uh. Welcome, everyone. Um, so for today's lecture, we are we will cover a couple of concepts and a lot of practicals.

We will start with the data. I have seen last time meeting you that we will apply a couple of techniques on this particular dataset.

Okay. So the last session, what we have done, we have looked at this particular data.

We have kind of developed some kind of a challenge, which is you were asked to use multiple different methods.

One group has done as one group has done realistic method maybe random forests, SVM, neural and this kind of, um, methodologies.

And then you want to compare. Yeah. So what I thought and then later on we have briefly talked about how we can do algorithmic trading some.

So methodologies. Um, and then we, we saw some network concepts meaning that.

Given how network based approaches can use to identify risk in the in in terms of like it might be financial stocks,

it might be uh, financial hub or or any kind of activities like that.

Yep. And we also talked about there are many different ways you can find association.

Yeah. So one of the basic associations would be just to do a correlation based association.

Then there are partial least square based method.

Uh sorry. Um uh partial correlation type of approaches which is conditional based meaning given x what is the probability b and c will be connected.

So these are the things we have discussed and the reason we have discussed. We wanted to understand.

Once you identify some marker or once you identify some factors how those factors are actually related to each other or they are not related.

Okay. So in the same context, uh, what we are going to do at the beginning of this session is, um, you are going to read these particular data.

So this data is already given from the last class. So probably what would be in your, um, local folder.

You read the file and you develop some network around it.

What does it mean?

It means that, um, if you see the 26th, um, merge the content in canvas, you will see there is some ah, script called basic, uh, network guitar.

And, um, this basic network guitar is based on, um, based on the data, uh, which this particular package offered.

But what I want you read this file and you create a network yourself, okay?

And you tell me what you see in this network.

Meaning that based on the data, what are, for example, and you can see different parameters like revenue growth, profit margin and other stops here.

Volatility, how those who are can visualize in a proper way okay.

So the task is. Use download basic.

Basic a network that are script. Read this file and show some networks around it, meaning that this is the last step of the analysis we do usually.

So we will give a very big data set. First of all, we do some prediction.

We call it. We do quality control of the data. We remove missing outliers, all the things.

Then some point this data is ready to do some downstream modeling.

Analysis. We do modeling. We estimate, um, the predictability uh sensitivity specificity score and many, many other parameters.

And then later on we wanted to visualize some extent, uh, the results.

So this is a part of the visual analytics or how best we can, uh, kind of, um, represent those, those features.

So network is one of the way some people use heatmap, some people use many, many different approaches,

but some kind of a visualization will help you to understand how the interactions or associations look like in this case.

Okay. So what you are going to do?

Um, first of all, uh, maybe I'll show you a download this, uh, um, here.

Okay. So here. As you can see, I'm reading all the time this particular data.

Right. So here these are the files. This this particular command is to remove all the objects in your um in your prompt.

Yeah. Command prompt. And then you load some library, you can load libraries.

And then this is the data which is already you've been practicing a lot.

So what I want you do not use this data. Rather you read the data I have sent last time.

And you follow up other things. And tell me how the results look like in this case.

Okay. So you use maybe base correlation.

And you can also use the Spearman based correlation,

meaning that non-parametric based correlations and trying to visualize how the data look like in this case.

So you will see maybe some characteristics when you get a simple correlation.

This data. I mean you can I mean I think some of you have done it last time, but we have not visualize it.

Okay. So that's what we're going to do now.

So if you can read your file, what you uh, I mean, when I say read your file, meaning that, um, I'm talking about this particular one.

Yeah. So you might have already have this data in your, in your local folder.

This is my. Last book.

Come. I.

Uh. Uh.

Invisible. I.

I'm. I'm.

Uh. The first part.

But. To.

Yeah. Uh.

And so when you in. The presentation.

Hope this. Is going to be over.

You can come over. You can put on the TV.

And. Speaking of that other.

Thing. You know you agree with me.

So we're don't need another 50/50. You just need this one.

So you just read the fine one the first, and then you see in the the life and then you move the states, the basic laws when you visualize purpose.

Yeah. Thank you, thank you, thank you.

No changing possible. Let's see what I did there.

So first. I.

So you were able to read the file, right. So this is the first step. Okay.

Now the second step is you edit the script. What.

What is already in the canvas.

You pass the queue graph function, estimate correlation and try to see how network is visualized trying to interpret the answer.

Now once you have done it, use different types of correlation, not a Pearson based correlation.

Use the Spearman based correlation and compare two different networks.

Identify if you see something interesting if many of the connectivities are.

If many of the features are connected with multiple different theme.

Alright, so. So do.

You. So what do we do?

One more expert and one of the signals and all this kind of.

Stuff. And. Hopefully.

You think that you know what you.

Need to think about. And now you cross this one in the graph is here another way to see that you might find a different loss.

So yeah. Yeah. But then you what did you looking for.

Looking. Yeah. You would look at this only differences.

And then this would be something. So you could easily have to Google connectivity.

So what do you want to use when do these little stone tools.

So what do you know.

What is it like. It's always connected. You can see what is the like to be connected by these.

Sort of very cool.

Yeah. Yeah that is something.

So you you to that. But it is more you can come you can see what is happening.

But compared with this we have never seen, we first need to check if the magnitude is changing.

Then if the design is changing so positive we can make it even positive compared to this one.

And it soon became differences. Yeah, yeah.

So it's possible. Okay.

So you need to change it. If you look at area of the fourth one.

Yeah usually. So don't follow blindly I mean so you you know.

No but I can tell you that it depends on the data. Right. And your personality.

We or not. Yeah. So if you say you look at the people then that is when you use your lead.

So don't don't follow like you data change. So that's what I'm trying to say.

You know because you know or you know talk to.

Them about. This.

I really hope so. I mean I think.

It's so number eight read or write or underscore.

So Eugene underscore. Yeah.

So it's it's good.

Go. Home.

It would include the skin. Yes, one.

That must be subject to inform you of legalization.

But also on. You must take what we've done. Only three people who have a legal right over.

I didn't mean it. Yeah. So they had visions.

Um, some of these, um.

So maybe the ones that should be consistent with an intent to build something.

Yes. Do you see any changes? There's no reason to change.

So it's completely changing. So these people who live in these movies.

You. Gave us this report.

Defense group and something like this for the business people.

Um, yeah. This is the only difference. So I'm just going to show that you add the extra layer.

You see what I mean? So if you don't like these what they don't like maybe in this case so positive is green.

And then we want we can change the color. Yeah. Then uh the screen.

Yeah. This one looks like. Yes yes yes.

And so in that particular. Right. Yeah. So you have, you're forcing um, your network the weakest link.

So it is all about how you want it to be utilized. Nothing to do. Conclusion.

Just a visualization. Okay. But we have two levels.

Each level is equal to truth. Then you can see the variance and otherwise you between them.

And when you're looking at it. And I'm showing layer by layer.

So rather than putting everything in a single script I split it up.

But these are you could write one. Okay.

Um. Um, because. Okay.

Yeah. Okay.

Okay. Okay. Thank you so much for being with us today.

Thank you so. Much.

And I want to. So here you are thinking later.

So you can see that this is in the data. Okay.

Yeah. The way we do the bike promotion.

Approval of the design. This new human right?

Yeah. So you don't need anything.

And we will need some data for this by using sort of an interview with the right people.

Jamie, he's got pneumonia in the hospital.

And then. So I'm asking if it is not even allowed to change.

Yeah. And then there's the new blood cells, which is not normally.

So that might be something good. Um, so in that case, um, we would have, you know, but then you have controlled heart disease centers, which are cool.

Oh, yeah. So it is this is, um, so if you listen that you.

No. Um, so, okay, so in the case of you, do you just do.

Anything you want. Because we were, you know, we have to.

There's no point that you are saying one thing only because you really want to.

You said, I mean, so because you are looking at the character and then like, yeah, so.

So they can play the game, you know, and um, so yeah.

So I think it is a good way to define in this case, let's see if it is more complicated.

Committee. Let's pass it.

See if he's working at this one. Oh, yeah.

Oh, so Tuesday night, the. And then.

One. So the reason we didn't work out because it was all the time.

I have a very regular automated signature. So when you're 21 to beginning that is not working.

Okay. So and then you look at the this is the money because you don't want if you look at them and then you understand a little bit more.

So the thing going on I think there was something.

So you say escape your light okay.

Why do you need it. Okay. So I didn't put that together.

All right. So I have seen, uh, few people have successful reading the file first of all.

Yeah. The second thing I have seen, they have calculated you guys have calculated a simple correlation.

So you have use score function. Yeah. And this core function is passing in all further statements.

Yeah. The whole function is passing through further as an object.

Now, I wanted to compare you two to the Pearson based correlation.

And and and the Spearman based correlation.

The reason is that many of the data set, usually in the financial market or or any other stock market data or kit container,

there is not necessarily they will be normally distributed. Okay.

So in that context you actually make sense to use non-parametric versions of the correlation.

Okay. And one one of them could be the Spearman based correlation.

Yeah.

Now once you apply some correlation analyses you will find there are some similarity between the results you have of t last class and the last class.

You found some negative correlation. Yeah. So you can compare it those negative correlation probably visualized or not.

In this particular exercise you can see some of them will be positively correlated with you.

Why what is your outcome variable. Future returns so far probably data is showing in your network is an FD.

So FD is is um is an outcome variable in this case.

And this will be a kind of a and um showing the elegant way.

Yeah. And this is usually the last steps of the analyses when people are doing okay.

Now sometimes people do get differences in the Pearson versus the correlation type of people.

It is as long as you can justify why I think you are good.

Okay. But some justification is required. And this justification can come from your domain knowledge domain expertise.

This justification can also, uh from your multiple different comparison.

Yeah. So for example if you use random forest. So if you use, um, artificial neural net, you can tell.

Okay, in all the methodologies I have consistently found some similar type of effect.

Yeah. What effect means. Effect means maybe.

And so if you take the mean value of the, of your, uh, outcome variable in one class and take, um, uh, you mean,

uh, mean value of another class, and maybe you can see, uh, what are the differences between those means?

That's one thing. Second thing, in the regression context, you actually mean the regression coefficient.

Okay. So, so this kind of exercise will give you or visualization will give you something extra.

Yeah. To, to just to organize and very interpretable. No I mean just silly just to say that okay did negatively positively show this kind of network.

I think it is very much your message will go to very easy.

Yeah. So also look at I mean did you get a consistent result compared to the last class.

If you check your, your lasso, um, or some coefficients last time you do you see some kind of a similarity between this network.

And the next question would be what are the hub variable in the network.

Can you identify which one is the hub.

So if you want to define hub, you need to go back to the previous lecture and then identify what is the definition of the hub.

May or may not. The nodes which are mostly connected.

Yeah. So so can you quantify those notes? Can you see the degrees of note.

The main target. The main target variable. So in this case main target variable.

So what is the degree. Of.

Know. Count the degrees.

Maybe in this case, it is easy. You can just count how many degrees are there and you can bring those degrees.

Is it, is it four, five, ten or something?

And if it is a highest degree meaning that that that will be the have no meaning, that will be a lot of interaction.

Yeah. Five. Five. No. Not.

Yeah. Not 5000. Activities. So how many of these are.

How many? How many? Of us do we have last year?

Yeah. Okay. Yes. No. Of course I do.

But I want. You to come.

To come to me. Because it's like. Only because you know what I think you know?

Yeah. Yeah. You know what that is? Yeah, definitely.

Um, I think it's. On on which mathematician so quite simplistically believes in the person.

But if you go deeper into one of these and because you're closer.

So even in the, in the computational work I don't. Think they know exactly what the animals are.

So? The noise is in there.

And the device? The good news for.

You can't. I could use the.

So. Right.

Come on, come on, come.

On. Thank you.

Thanks. Story about.

And. Did.

Right. So in these two approaches, which one is consistent?

What is consistent between Pearson and Spearman. These correlations exhibit.

Okay. So hub the node which is mostly connected.

This is consistent. And did you did you see any consistency across um um across the interactions.

So meaning that if the same type variable okay.

So they are consistent some extent. So we can say consistent here.

Okay. So this is really important I mean I mean for example in your in your assignment.

Yeah in your assignment you have you have given many different data set.

No. Sometimes your question is identify those data or maybe look into these data.

So as a last step you can draw some kind of like network to show how does it look like.

Yeah. If if the if the computational thing you found if, if you computational being found is is similar to the your network based approaches or not.

Okay. And then you can also compare different ones. Yeah.

Any any question. And uh for this maybe then I moving to the next one that's been taken.

That's a no no I'm saying that so so so this is really this last part of the analysis pipeline.

So analysis pipelines are review of what you control and with your identification predictability.

So interactions and all these things. Yeah.

And then by showing the network you can you can glean these are the important measurements in your in your network.

And they look like similar similarities. And when you develop a model or in those model let's say the regression model okay.

If you develop a regression model you want the measurements as a positive impact on you.

What you tend to get a similar positive impact in this network because it's just a similarity.

Okay. So it's just a visual type of approach by.

You can you can show, uh, how results look. Okay.

All right. So so I'll move on to the next topic.

Next topic. Um, we have talked about um, we have talked about the clustering method,

if you remember, because I think there is one, one challenge on the clustering as well.

Yeah. And, and uh, if. Who is doing the clustering one.

Do you know? Do you know the groups? Or we haven't decided yet.

Lawrence decided it best, and I think those people left over.

There are five challenges, right? Or six challenges. There are five challenges.

Okay. Um. Until now, only three challenges.

I've been selected. They become the first one. Okay.

And the fourth at the first one. And I have moments that I can handle for what is first one.

Yeah. Because the reason I'm saying that, I mean, I mean, I'm giving some hint that, you know, journalistically it was it was not selected.

Yeah. Okay. And then another one, the fourth one is.

Opening the event was also okay, but the bank was selected.

Okay. Um, so I stop that crap, and I'm.

Okay. Okay. No, that's fine. Thank. Crop prediction, credit card defaulter spending billions in the stock market and inflation.

Okay okay okay. All right. So so maybe some people will say that you never know.

Uh this one. So. So I am going to talk about a little bit of unsupervised because I think we have discussed a lot about supervised algorithms.

Not as much as unsupervised learning. So this is like can and maybe you already know.

So have you learnt already PCA noises. Yeah yeah.

Okay. So what is PCA kind of. Yeah I mean of course this is, but uh, what is the basis what is the basis of it?

I mean, what it does. They use the high definition data to do that.

Okay. How it does. But.

Do these interventions. Or will you continue the.

I will take you back. Okay.

I am considering okay. And, um. Okay. That.

Okay. That is a good answer. Um, and and how we interpret the results.

I know how we are interpreting those results.

How many plots you get a PCR complete?

Because this will complement what you are doing in terms of it doesn't matter, you do supervised challenge or unsupervised challenge.

If you are doing the, uh, some people are, uh, bankrupt or not, or this kind of the you can see the behavioral world.

Okay, so maybe I'll go through very basic and then we are going to use the same data.

Okay. So first I am going to talk about a few things on the PCA.

And then we are going to use particular dataset. And we are going to compare again how the behavior of the coefficients okay.

So let me let me go through quickly. Um. So the transform.

Yeah. Yeah okay. That was you know, weight loss.

So let me uh, just a very brief way of looking into that.

Um. Oh, okay.

So is, as you say, is PC is a principal component analysis. And and you write, uh, saying that.

Now the thing is the PCA used for dimension reduction.

Okay. So dimension is given dimension of the data is provided by what is examples.

Is it. Is it individuals or is it measurement. When I say high dimension.

Low dimension, what does it mean? Dimension is determined by what is individual or easy to measure, which you have.

Or parameters, whatever, you know. But I think those who believe they are decided by individuals, the rest of the US.

So if you have let's say X1X22 parameters. Okay.

So data would be two dimension. So dimension of the data is determined by your measurements.

Okay. So for example here if you say reducing the dimension.

Actually you want to reduce your columns. Assuming columns are your your your measurements or parameters.

Okay. So if you do reduce your dimension what will happen.

Provided if you have maybe 100 measurements. Once you reduce it it will be very small number of measurements.

Now question is how best we can compress the compression.

Yeah it's like compressing the data. Okay. Initially it was a big size and you compress it become the small size.

Okay. So so the key idea is how can you reduce the dimension that is all about like a principal component.

Okay. So one of the thing is, um, the way it works, it maximizes the variance of the data.

Okay. So given any data set, if, if the PCA works on the maximization of your variance given okay.

So um, and the way it does it will identify, for example, let's say like an expert here,

um, let's say you have given one of the data set like this okay.

And here let's say you have a 150.

So n is 50 and you have given one, two, maybe 60 measurements.

So B is 60. So this is the x matrix.

And each of the columns represent the measurement.

And maybe you have an outcome variable you know which is maybe quantity might be what you can do here.

So here you can say this is X1X2X3.

These are all measurements okay. Now what it does that you do it will maximize the variance within within the data set.

So it will create a new uh, new feature.

It would create a new feature, or we call it as it is a latent feature.

Okay new feature. Added feature how? And sometimes it is called principal component one okay.

Principal component one. It will be lambda 1X1, lambda 2X2, which is a linear combination of your original feature.

So how many are there? There are 60. So it will be lambda times 60 and x 60 okay.

So this is given PC principal component one. Principal component one is called is a little feature.

So you replace what do you got here. And what is important in the sense you forget about the original measurement.

You just consider principal component one. So that is replacing and new compressed version compressed version will come like this.

So now you have a principal component one that is the one.

Okay. Then what you do? You do the second combination.

In the second combination you get another version. Another one okay.

Lambda two. So this is two principal component two. So we we you know mutations.

Yeah we do some mutations in lambda 2X22.

Plus we got it out there uh 62 x 62 okay.

So this is the second principal component here. The first principle component will be the highest variance explained okay.

Let's say these particular PC1 will capture 30% of the variance of the data.

Second one will be the second lowest. Maybe it will create a 25% and so on and so forth.

You will get around 50 principal components. Okay, so ideal question is there is no point if you have a 60 um 60 features, original features.

After compression you are choosing maybe principal component one, two, three, four, five, maybe five of them.

So meaning your new dimension of the data changes PC one only one PC two.

Okay, BBC three and PC four.

And then PC. But there are five. The total variance may be close to 80%.

What does it mean? Meaning if you don't use your original features.

If you don't use your original features. If you just use five new latent features, it will capture 80% of the variance in your dataset.

Okay. And that's how it reduces your dimension.

And it doesn't matter if it's 6600 even. Yeah.

If it has 600 events, we can see how many components.

Uh, actually, we can use.

And the question always people ask, okay, how many principal components we should take into account.

Okay. So this is a very valid question. And what we will do in to answer this.

The the draw a graph okay. You draw a graph.

Like this. In this graph they say principal component one.

Principal component two. Principal component three and don't work.

How many components. Okay so x axis number of components y x variance can be can be maximum 100%.

Yeah okay. So principal component if I say a few percent and then maybe here it is uh 80.

Here it is 5030 2010 okay.

So principal component one based on what I say here it is.

It will be here huh. It will be here. And then maybe these are component two.

Maybe somewhere here and somewhere here. And then and then you see this is a good headline.

If I can make it go ahead. Like you always if you use you know and sometimes a vision of principal component doesn't add any value.

It doesn't change the variance in your data. Okay.

So this is one graph. You can also create a cumulative variance graph.

Let's do the same graph. It will do like this. And what does it mean?

It meaning cumulative. Meaning you use one cumulative minute.

This 30%. And then there is 20%. So 30% deviate 50.

You see what I mean. So accumulation of cumulative adding.

Adding those variances and then and some where it is doesn't change.

So there is no point. And you go to go to zero. You go to get you choose the.

You choose where it is getting saturated. And then you see how many components here.

Are you getting this? This is really important actually. So. So.

And I will tell you why it is important when, I mean, uh, when you do the analysis,

like in binary classes, you can all estimate those things in a model.

Okay. So what will I say? This is a graph of decision.

Bluff many. Based on these. I can decide how many components we can take.

Two, three, four, five, seven, ten. And this will give you answer because you want it to take as much as close to 100%.

But we do not want to make your model noise. You see what I mean?

You don't want to make a model noise taking anything after this point.

Maybe. Is not going to be useful because if you if you see here if you don't.

If you say extrapolate so you don't okay.

This is 75 maybe. Okay. Okay. So here maybe this is the maximum one you know and anything and you for the it is not going to contribute in your data.

It is just making no data miss or noise.

So you make this decision and then this decision and this way this is actually coming here.

Yeah, this information is coming here, so don't think I'm putting randomly.

It is not random. I got this answer from visa. Yeah.

Now some people think okay, if if I need to use 100 pieces.

Oh well. Well, we use it, but there should be some incremental.

They should contribute something to this one. Okay, great. Now, I hope you understood this one.

And this is a purpose. There is a reason why we are doing.

So that is what I am saying, that in the second principle vector perpendicular to the first one.

So okay, this is another, another kind of in conversation.

I mean how we take into account the correlated features.

Okay. So what happening is that variance the principal component one and principal component two.

They are 90 degree in in a in a kind of a in a in a perpendicular to each other.

So that by doing this by doing this the taking care of your correlated features.

Meaning if you have a correlation in the data, which will be obviously true, does not matter.

And I can't believe if they collect the like data there is a correlation, right?

You saw it immediately okay. So it is not possible. There is the data.

There is no correlation behind like multicollinearity.

So this is one of the way you can get rid of the multicollinearity by using the PC.

Because you can say these pieces are perpendicular to each other.

Meaning they are uncorrelated. So the one direction is this anomaly detection is not calling a general.

By doing this. That's how they get rid of the multicollinearity aspect from the data set.

Okay, so I think I think I have just shown, uh, in the board, um, and this is more general, I think the same thing I began hearing.

But it is very general. Yeah. All right.

So you understand this one. Okay. Now talk about the plot and the visual analytics in the visual analytics, which plays a major role.

So we are talking about the multivariate visualization how best we can visualize the data.

And so we are not talking about one one feature. We're talking about multiple features.

So it becomes a multivariable visualization. Okay, so in PCA there are many different ways we can visualize.

The first one is the screen block. Screen plot is telling you a percentage of variation.

So retuning the script here. If I say scree plot is showing variance in the data.

This is usually. Okay, that's one ice cream plot is screen blocked, so please be careful about the nomenclature.

I mean, you will find these things very, very common in the literature.

Or if you if you are if you are talking with someone okay, they will tell you, oh I have done scree plot from the script it is very much visible.

I don't need many principal components. I need the 5 or 10 principal components.

So you need to immediately connect on that. So sorry.

Plot. Talking about the variance or variation in the data. Second one is individual plot.

Meaning if you have 1000 individuals you are working with and you can say do not know the data you have found.

For example, this data is given how many are there? 1000, 1000 individual one.

And if you want to know one of the data you are working in for your assignment, it will be similar size.

Okay. So. So there is.

And I'll show you in a minute. What does it mean? Uh, so individual plot, also called as a score plot.

So recognize those terminology. Scoreboard what is called what is doing or score what will tell you samples, objects and rules.

Given your. Your individuals are represented in rules in your data.

Okay, so that simple. I'll come back to that because I need to show you some figures here.

Third one variable plot loading plot and also called visit coefficient okay.

Variable loading coefficient. This is all about acting.

Now if you are looking to look into the board you have seen that I have written some equation, right?

That the loading plot is all about how much coefficients each of them are getting.

How much of the mortgage lender will. Okay.

Lambda value. So these are coefficient worth loading. Yeah.

And then some people say okay I am going to combine my individuals and my coefficient in a single plot.

They call it is a viper. Viper two. Two plots merging together.

That's what they call viper. Okay.

Do you have any confusion? So how many plots we're are talking about here? Four different books.

One will show variants or variation. One will show you individuals, one to show you the measurement or coefficients.

And sometimes they combine the qualities set by. Okay.

Now what I want you. I want you to run the same script.

But the data you have got. Okay, so I want you to show me.

All the plots I talked about. I want to see scree plot.

I want to see. And you can do some some researching as well.

If the script is not where I want to produce you four different number one script blocks variance in the data you are going to use, not this one data.

You have already loaded the data. Yeah.

Data here. You have already load it. So using this particular data set.

Okay. I would like to see the four different ports. I also like like you to compare the coefficients of loading with the correlation.

You have just the. Okay now I am trying to connect everything together.

They should give you kind of a similar kind of a behavior, or at least some sort of a and not identical but will be similar.

Okay. So in in, uh. Um, um, but.

Okay. These are the some examples actually, uh, you will see.

So I have shown already these ones the component x y is this component y x is variance.

You can see how does it look like. And this is actually the coefficient.

Yeah. And if you look into the canvas, you will see, uh.

Okay. There is a small species, but then you need to.

Okay. You can use. So this function PCA function PCA there is coming also by default as well.

Okay. So meaning that by default what is mean. You probably don't need any any packages to use.

But there are some specialized package you can also use. Um maybe let's see which of the.

Yeah. So there is a there is a package called to extra EC2.

Mine are, there are two different packages which are very very good for you your visualization.

So maybe I'll keep it here open. You can do many different thing.

But one of the aspect for this particular uh factor extra is SPC analysis.

It can do factor analysis. You can do hierarchical clustering.

So maybe you can um, uh, kind of uh, install the factor extra and then part from the PC, all the data given to.

Um, yeah. You.

Um. Um.

Um. Um. Okay.

Um. I.

Because if they want to do that. Yeah.

But then then you can see. How you have some sort of under control.

Yeah. I don't know.

Um, yeah. As you.

Can imagine. If you were to find out about this.

I do, I do. Um.

I just like to. Do it.

I haven't done it yet. But most of us, if you scroll.

Down and you find. Some genuinely love hiding.

It's one foot long.

And usually you apply it to 100 and.

81 people. I think we need to follow the procedure.

All right. I don't want to mess here.

Okay. We have to give it to you. So, I mean, if you can see this is not very nice for you.

I didn't think it was 1 million.

I think it's over here. Yeah, they have those that have done this.

Before. This is when you got to see it.

In a previous TV guide to the outside.

World. This is a fungus that's like you can, you know, it was so far, I have to say, when when Supose is going on here.

We all have to be in. Okay.

When you see these numbers that I was going to see, an old images of, you are just the ones that you always like that you want to be there.

I mean, you need to do it. Oh, this is going to be this.

Yeah. This is also the thesis in the 90s.

And people. Will say, if you like it, we do need to take a look at your input.

Yes you do. Uh, you know, this was the first time.

Um, it was actually, but I believe.

So closely. Um. No, no, I think I think in this case, I'm just asking for, um, you know, the PC kept growing, as I have not talked about yet.

Yes. But, um, show me. Uh, okay.

Um, you know, the technologies, but if you go to the, you know, look with, uh.

Okay, let's go with that. Yeah.

Um, and in this particular one, that. Uh.

Yeah. This one. This one? Um, no. Yeah.

Now these two. This is what I mean. So this is very basic stuff in this case.

So you see some structure room. Um, yeah.

And then then probably we can do the other one with. The.

This is what is good. It was good for them. I used as long.

As I can give. It to you.

Are we going to do something here?

In the city center. Okay.

This is. The place where you can see a lot of.

Um hum. Um hum.

Um. Hum. Yeah. Um.

Hum. Um hum. It's probably gone.

You haven't noticed anything?

Yeah. You just 45 minutes and then come back within minutes from the original people or something.

You can compare the population and to see.

If this is a traumatic unrest, you have.

Huh. But I have absolutely no job, so.

Yeah. So. Yeah. I just want to hear from you.

Have you applied for something or you just I gave, you know, I was, like, knowledgeable, and she was dying.

I would feel like if I don't want. You.

To go ask for it. I spend a whole lot. Of money.

And it has run off somewhere. Uh, the positive things we supposed to do does not result in giving us any items.

Things you have to do. I changed up a little bit to the.

You said I could watch him, so then I would train.

So this is intriguing. But this one PC is always there.

You. Know, I think these are.

The employees who are going to talk to. You.

Guys. I love the negative of this. But I like the, uh, individuals that maybe don't need anything anymore.

And I think one of the reasons that. I asked you to keep your fingers to the bottom of this much as soon.

As I get to see. You again?

Any luck? Um, yeah.

I. The. You.

Choose from this book. What do you think of the result?

Oh, you have no idea. You wanted comparisons between and flops, right?

Yeah. So? So what? I'm just trying to.

So? So this is the script, actually. So as in this particular script, you see, we don't need to install any package.

It is coming automatically. This is a principal component because I mean automatically in the base package.

Okay. So what all you need to do, you can you, um, read the file, the data and, and, uh, you,

you put this data into the reason, like, for example, like one and two, three and four.

Yeah. And do one of these three as well or do them.

No. We in this case just. So when you do this code, you chew everything together.

Okay. But but principal component one and two. So basically what pipeline two is most important because of highest variance explained.

So people tend to use always by default one and two.

Okay. Now other thing is that sometimes in principal components people don't use the white.

People don't use white meaning with.

So that's why it is called unsupervised. People want to see the structure of your data.

So the feature return sometimes they don't use it. So maybe you can try using fetch feature returns in your in your data without using.

So without is very easy. Negative column. Drop it and then see what is it.

Okay. Let me change.

So. I'm.

Just going to simple and. I'm going.

To. Go.

Okay. So this should be. Who you call your model.

Now we do not. Know.

And. There we go.

And there's room for scores. Three. Five. Four.

So. That's why you see, you have got one which is good.

So you have. One survival.

And you. Are you going I have no I don't get people talk to your guys in the homework.

Yeah, yeah. So this one is comparing to school.

I put it together. Yes. And how do you how do I do?

This. Yeah. You just call the API. I think one is pretty cool.

No, it's just you not going to work.

It's one of the reasons why this overconcentration is not.

Working as fast. As you can.

See? You ask. And what is it? Yeah. System.

Um. And.

Um. You. Know, this is what I'm using.

To be able to use it.

Yeah. This stuff is really good.

Like I'll be doing the slides up there will make national to.

Of you. Uh, I will make the moves of government.

What is good strategy is that I will do the legislation that I do for each group to be for right now, uh, to be helping you have prepared or to us.

Um, so yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

75 so so is it.

Possible, you know a. I started.

$75 and God is looking ahead for Divine Mercy.

Yeah, I'm with you on this one. And I know, I know, it's not easy to get to where I know you want to spend.

So it's like, you know, I love the safety of open doors.

Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I, I just don't be free.

Yeah. You just take.

You just take. Yeah. It's like. Okay. Uh, so just to tell you one thing, I mean, whenever someone is giving you the data, for example,

in your assignments, you might want to do some PC and show how much variance actually data is excluded.

So data is not explaining 10% and you are fighting enough to get some marker which is important.

So this is like uh, this is probably not a good idea because you don't know what is happening.

So that's why I am telling you the PCA will give you an overall idea.

If this data is not very good data for you to use, the data I have given you, it is not very good and light is not good.

Who can tell you these data is not very good data?

See why I am saying which figure in this PCA giving me that information.

And then because everything is in the middle, everything is in the middle.

Yeah. Everything is in the middle. It doesn't show any kind of.

So now. Now those people who got a defaulter like this is a regression problem, right?

Feature return is a quantitative value. Now, if I tell you forget about feature return, put 010101 maybe.

And, uh, bankrupt. Am not bankrupt. Let's say I'm pretending.

Can I color in my PC? I can color, no.

I can color individual. So if it is a good data, if it is a good data, ideally I remove it.

Now, uh, if it is a good data, ideally you should have got this.

So these are diagnostics. These are so important. It doesn't matter if he's actually 1 or 2.

So some people okay. Now some people do consulting okay.

Want something. People already do. So people who come with the data, people come with the problem.

You are a consulting consultant, meaning that they're consulted, meaning they they do many, many things.

Or based on the consulting problem in the department, they might have specific consulting problem the divert accordingly based on the expertise.

Okay. So let's see what to consult. Here. We go on something business or freelancer for example okay.

So freelancer is is it any that are very heavy.

But the thing is um, um, but quality work in the same time.

So you got this kind of data. Okay.

Like this. So I am putting cross crosses my individuals, right?

Okay. Each of them are cross means individual. But. But when I see you can replace your future return by 01A binary class.

Okay, a binary class. Maybe. Now I am putting to zero. So what is going to happen here?

And you cannot really differentiate you. Can you differentiate if the variance is very very low because everything is concentrated.

There is nothing will differentiate. You can try. You maybe.

So it could be it could be. Data is complex. One second could be.

No. Look. In the data.

These are the and then because if it is a complex then you can make a decision.

You can use non-linear method SVM maybe random forest to capture the non-linearity because there is no way any linear method can separate.

Two classes. Yeah. So.

And then if it is fail. If it is fail, then you claim the data.

You say, okay, you got something. We do a lot. Okay. And sometimes when we eat something, you want something in this case.

And if we don't go usually further down.

And this is a discussion point. You need to make a decision here. So we should do it.

We should give them to make a decision. Should I go further in my analysis or not.

Because I don't see the structure here. I have spent, let's say, um, two weeks or maybe, unluckily, maybe two weeks.

Yet two weeks is a decent time for this analysis because you want to check everything,

not even potentially in the hours only you and 15 hours that you spend.

And then you say, okay, I don't say structure what to do? Should you want me to go further then probably not useful.

And if you can make it this transparent decision making capability, then you get a good start or you stop here.

They will make a decision here. The stakeholders will say, okay, this is fine.

I just want to see how the look. Okay, so this kind of pick from a favorite book.

It will give you a decision should you go ahead or not? Go ahead.

How much variance or percentages is explaining principal component one and principal component two?

How much variance it is explaining? Usually, if it is explaining around 30% variance and it is explaining 20%.

So 50% variance culture by two norms. Okay, so that's probably good enough.

But then if it is very less number of variance captured then it is a problem.

Okay, so that's what I'm saying. It doesn't matter which program you have.

You are willing to work, but it is a good to understand how how overall things are going ahead.

And we call it as a quality control. So PCA is used as a quality control in this particular situation.

Okay, so if so, another thing. Is there one important thing you might have noticed here, uh, standardization of the data.

So standardization of the data is very important in principle component.

And who can tell me what. Why we need to standardize the data when and when I'm doing the principal components.

What is generally. What is generalization?

Yeah. So still. So someone you get the I mean, you got the data and then you need to standardize because you want to compare each of the measurements.

So next say one of the measurements x one is getting.

Another is x two is centimeter. Can you compare. Yeah.

It's like you want to from one. Your friend is from number ten resulting to community.

So if they are not in the same platform. And can you compare?

You cannot compare. You cannot know how low is low. How high is high?

It is not compared. And so you need measurements many many, many different ways like that.

Yeah. So what do you do. You use of, um a standardized meaning one of the way to standardization.

So you convert your x one huh. You convert x one to x prime okay.

X prime years is a kind of in um a different.

So what is x prime? Explain meaning x minus x bar and a divided by standard deviation of SD of x x I.

Actually I have number, I have number and it is modified to accept this.

You sorry me. So all of them need to be converted okay. There are different ways some people also do these things also find.

Okay. Some people do this. Uh, x I divided by max of x, I mean of x I.

So what I've done, I have taken maximum number of x subtracted.

So it is range. No this is range. We call it as a range scaling.

We call it is a range killing. The previous one was the Pareto scaling.

So we are not dividing by standard deviation. We are dividing root square root of the standard deviation.

So there are different ways. So the point is you need to do something on this.

You need to do some kind of for some people only do this for some people only to only do x x bar xy.

And so you will. That's it. So this affect the mean. Let's say they don't even divide by standard deviation.

So some kind of a some kind of a standardization.

So so you say it is a criteria before doing the principal component because you might remember the coefficient linear combination.

Otherwise some of the features will need a very high weight. Some of them will get low weight.

And it will be injustice to do, which is getting the low weight because it's happened, because you you have not standardize the data.

Nothing to do with defect okay, okay.

All right. So then and then you can see this is I ask you to replace these empty that I have said you standardize it.

And then you can see the summary in the box here. So you can see there some variance.

Maybe you have generated some bad plots okay. So so some of the bar is the same as.

So um the bar plot. Yeah something like this.

And variance is decreasing. Same as is it not that you just it does.

The only thing has changed here. Uh, speaker I think the I said these ones are similar.

Okay. Now, um, later in this you can clumsy picture you you probably you might have seen the figure is not very good.

The recent figure is not very good. First of all, there are two different things are happening by plot.

One is the scree plot and loading for together.

Now, in this particular case, it's not a good idea to put together because you yourself cannot see that the how the overlapping.

It's a bit accounting. However, in this case it is very much, uh, you have noticed the variation of the data is not much.

The everything looks like centered around zero. Okay, so there is no way.

And then you have seen some extent in the network analysis, the regression analyses, regression coefficients or correlation value.

They are not very strong enough. Have you have you noticed that you might have noticed the slope there?

There is not much strong correlations. If you go back to you figure, you will see that.

Yes, you will see that okay. Now, um, okay.

Now in this particular, uh, PR com, you can you can also plot the loadings, you can do the things.

But it is a good idea to practice, you know, um, um, and using it, it is you can use after processing,

you remove the missing values and then or impute the missing values outlier in the next.

It usually the principal component asking yourself, okay, what are the variance in the data.

And that will complement your other methods, whatever you are. Okay.

All right. So we'll stop the PC thing and go to the next level. Okay.

Maybe we can take a break 5.56 minutes. Yeah. Okay.

Then we'll go to the next topic. Like.

You know. Uh, yeah.

Yeah. Um. So I didn't know.

You were. Doing that.

Hello? I didn't say your name.

Okay. Okay. I'm sorry.

I didn't know which one. No.

We are just looking at the variance of the data. So all the variables would be great. Representing one thing.

And if you go far enough. Uh, we can see these variables.

How the directionality of how the positive findings negatively link in the data.

Which data. So we do have and you can see here these are the students.

You can see that these are the all the way up to journaling that yes we need to the use of de-identified accounts.

All right. Yeah. Yeah definitely.

Somebody already in this class will be, um, those variables that does not have a high value will be.

This is opposite, right? You see the 21 directions. Um, so look at the coefficient with the coefficient increased one for the year.

I'm not expecting it to be that. So that's. How we're going to come in here will contribute to contributing to the happiness.

Yes. But for that problem you can print uh, you can find the coefficients.

Look at the coefficient d principal component one. And you can actually go to some short ideas.

Um, go to this one where you are looking. So I don't know.

Somewhere, somewhere we can be sitting here checking the coefficients.

Empty. All the all the principal sources that are the main components.

So we look at the physical component a1, a2 and the.

That's how the project goes. Yeah. This is eigenvalue okay.

Yeah. So this is the data we're working on now maybe what you think you can do.

Yeah. So yeah yeah yeah yeah.

And most importantly you can tell me the time when I was four or something.

Okay. Awesome. Yeah.

So this is the one. Which one? The directions on the negative.

Yeah. So you remember I immediate equation here remember.

So these are coming from these values. So positive number plus something.

Yeah. So so evidence group multiplied with this value.

And all of them you can write equations.

So so this is this this is the coefficient you have done by using the PC replicate component is replicate the formula.

Yeah. And then you loading.

Yeah. Principal component one option. So hopefully if will want to do so.

So which component equals. But but this figure should be either 1 or 2.

What you probably don't need for multiple you know it would be separate figures symbols.

So you must have something. So figure number one maybe principal component one and variance principal component two.

Loading. So what do you see. It should be four figures not one thing. So you might have added loosely component just before components.

No I understand you know what I mean. So let's say you principal component one you take all right.

Didn't make this one. But then you have coefficients here is very different from here and from here.

So what you should be now you are showing me like these node. Yeah.

Remember so showing me like this. Now if you are seeing these are the coefficient.

So the other coefficient lambda 1X1. So lambda one is here these one and this value you got.

This is the value here. This is negative. So it should be negative here and right here.

But this is so. But what I'm seeing there before different pictures should be there.

But it cannot be in one picture you can represent you see what is either you have added something that is not related to one of our principal.

One was uh, see see this? We always make sense.

One versus two. Twice. Um, and only two.

But then how you compare, huh? Only. Okay, now I can I got it.

I think it's good because I know choose on all these variations what you think I computed on.

Okay, I see now so PC one versus two and then PC one.

But it's okay. Now this I know this one. God I love you.

So I say because you are projecting everything in this into one figure I got confused.

No, I got confused because, uh, there are four numbers.

You are putting two dimensional feature, so now it makes sense.

I got confused. Uh, so you should be two. It should be PC1 versus.

So that's what confusion this is, right that I got all.

But then what. You shouldn't label other one one.

You should be the other one. Uh two. It was only from one two.

All those alternatives again you I'm going to do.

But then. But you shouldn't be PC one versus PC for PC on this is PC2.

Yeah. So what I'm saying is one versus I think this is I don't know this done.

I think you have done correctly PC1 versus a PC three PC three versus PC four okay.

So each of them we the options you're dealing shouldn't is going to see one which is physical okay here this one.

But then two got confused I got a confusion of study.

Maybe you've done correct this one I followed this how.

So for this is one bigger. Yes this is number three. There is another bigger.

But then I can see only one figure here. Put it the figures.

Do in this figure that we need a number. We give it another one.

Then people. Coalition building company.

Um, and as you can see, this is revenue growth.

And he wanted me to be representative.

He said, um, the visible, uh, benefits going. So that's that's what I'm saying.

So. So you got revenue here? You got a revenue here.

So you sort of, you know, you got revenue here in here. Okay.

So this is positive. You need to be positive. I think if you get hit something nobody told us.

So so if you agree with this one. So revenue had four different options.

You see any specific number. Could outperform the thing and ultimately 4 to 5.

So that is fine. But let me clarify recently here if there are regularly a report into the comprehensive E3.

So we'd be in no different one.

So for each revenue you will get a four different box.

Did you get that? That's fine. That is fine.

Yeah, yeah. So? So yeah. So that's when I got confused with this one divided equally.

But some of this one was consistent. Yeah.

Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

But this is all fine. But this is all unsupervised.

I don't know what the problem is. Not familiar. What?

Is it? Um. Or is it just to try and explore?

Outputs individually? Yeah. We need to check revenue. But what is?

Before anything, you know, it is just.

Just a method of doing the variance in the data over in the method.

But you go in and look at.

It. Yeah. You know.

Yeah. Yeah.

What do you think? Um. We don't do that, do you?

Okay. Yeah. So, you know, what are you up to?

Okay. Um, yeah. We're we're we're.

I miss Sharon. I really wish that I could have gone.

What do you think of later? Let me talk.

About 95. Another six times when it finishes.

Yeah. Okay. Why did you let him do it so well?

This is sort. Of a big deal for him to do.

I don't think he's gonna do the right thing. Now I can read.

Your. Mind and let you give us something.

Thank you so. Much.

No, don't do that. Hey, you.

Guys! Is this like you, or you could write a really good mom.

I do know how to. Yeah.

Next time, check the bag. I'm glad you said earlier.

That woke me up. So hopefully we'll see what's happening right now.

I do. So please check on my orchestra.

My organized concert is sometimes quite commonly cited as the address of the temples.

I didn't want to just jump in the line.

No, no. That's fine. Just so.

You know, I know you have to pay for the official.

See? Okay.

Okay. So maybe just explanation a bit on this one.

So, uh. The data you have, right?

You might see this quite busy. Yeah.

So because there are a lot of 1000 individuals, are there very difficult to interpret.

Okay. But also in the same time you have seen some of the red color versus the, um, the black color combination here.

And usually this is called the Bipoc. Yeah.

By as I explained earlier, it is a combination of your, um, measurements and, uh, combination of your, uh, individuals in the same figure.

Now, you might have observed sometimes not sometimes all the times in the bi plot there would be something ETL pointed out.

Okay. So arrow pointed out. Yeah. So those are your measurements.

And then and this this particular data you can see see here we this is one of the measurements compared with uh another one.

You see this is just the opposite okay.

What it means that the direction of these two variables, if you look into the coefficient plot, those values will be opposing coefficient,

meaning I want to be positive or negative, but it also means that some of the variables you can see they are very close to these particular cars.

The uh, they are different, uh, cars originally they were different cars.

And and these are the feature for example, gear drop in many things.

The three of them are actually in the same direction, meaning they are there.

There will be high value of these coefficient in those cars.

Okay. The data you have got in this case, maybe you have seen some of them.

Your data is quite messy at the same time, so you may not see 100%, uh, looking into the figure,

but if you see the the data, you can see some of them will be very high value, uh, in this, in this, um, uh, context.

Then sometimes you can see here, like many of the things that together.

No. If you look into the the the presentation slide, you can see some of them are very, very overloaded.

Like it, like it and overlapping each other. So sometimes people use PCA for clustering as well.

Okay, so when you say clustering, if you recall your concepts of clustering,

the unsupervised way of looking into it, meaning it will try to understand the hidden pattern in the data.

Now, if you look at the PCA in this particular plot, in the what I'm showing a, you can see some of them are false.

So for example, it makes sense and Mazda R x4 is very much close with Mazda are export w a G version.

So they are a similar company. Different types of kernel.

Okay, maybe version one, version two type of thing. And that's why it's highly likely they are pretty much correlated.

Okay, so when you do your assignment or any kind of data where you have, um, binary classes, yes or no or maybe yes, maybe no.

You expect those individuals probably will be together?

Okay. So this plot give you actually quite a lot of information here in in in this perspective.

Now also you can see the properties, uh, of those cluster, um, uh, cars is very different from this one.

They are, they are, they're opposite with each other.

Okay, so what I'm trying to say that, I mean, if you want to understand the data very well, or if you want to get to how the data is look like,

um, the this PCA plot or PCA different plotting, uh, provide you some extra information here.

Okay, great. And, uh, please, uh, read.

There is a very, um, um, uh, this is a blog. Someone someone is writing, and I find this blog is excellent.

Um, there are scripts. There are many examples. Um, and you can replicate from your data as well.

You can just change your input file and, and you need to interpret the data the way it is.

So context changes. Uh, input file changes. Other thing doesn't change.

Okay. So this is quite useful. Now there are two packages which is called factor miner and factor extra.

These two packages uh will perform more than just analysts.

So PCA is it is a that in feature modeling okay.

Or sometimes people call it is a projection based model.

The projection coming from the latent space meaning the linear combination of the original variable in this case okay.

But there are some other methodology as well. And one of the method is called the factor analysis.

Okay. So factor analysis and principal component analysis they all depends on the projection or the latent structure.

However um the the factor analysis is more interpretable okay.

More interpretable. How the factor analysis will tell you anything.

Heat impact on your data for example how much factor is involved in this one.

So I'll give you one example. Let's say and in the class some person got high marks in physics versus mathematics compared to history.

Okay. So so it is obvious that someone is good in physics.

Probably get good marks in the mathematics and other way round, but history is more literature driven thing.

Okay. So one is uh, one is quantitative.

Another is non quantitative. Okay. So factor in the PCA will tell you how the variance and all the things look like factor analysis.

We go one step beyond saying that okay. Is it.

Is it a quantitative science. It is a probably that's why it will.

Their marks is higher in this case and therefore related. Okay.

Um, so each of the factor we define based on the equations and those equations.

Yeah. As you can see here, we can interpret uh a little bit more on this one.

Um, and in each of the factor associated with some estimates you can use those estimate using

automation like a factor miner will will will provide you those estimates automatically.

Okay. Um. So, for example, as I was telling, PCA doesn't estimate specific affect, but factor will tell you how much effect it is.

You know, uh, going to do it in the components. Okay. Um, and also it will tell you is there any common factor associated with that?

Sometimes it can be visualized very nicely. And I think in social science people use a lot of factor analyses, mediation analyses,

those type of analyses, uh, because they are pretty much interpretable anyway.

Okay. So, uh, the example I put into the canvas, I mean, now, I mean, as you can see here, um, uh, maybe I can make it bigger a bit.

So in this particular case, I am using a package called uh, B in CCH in this particular library.

Uh, again, the data I have used, um, um, the data given to us.

I have standardized the data, and, uh, we are, um, determining how many factors, actually, um, and I need to take into account.

Okay. And the way we do it in this, in this case, we can randomize multiple times.

We iterate based on, um, based on the data.

And then we determine how many numbers we can choose. Okay.

Um, uh, or we can use it based on the scree plot.

So in this particular case number of factors we are taking three. And it could be five.

It could be six based on the scree plot script will tell you how much variance is important like a PCA thing.

Okay. And then and then from the variance you can visualize your results.

Okay. Now if you can replicate the same exercise.

So previously you have done PCA. Okay.

If you, if you just um replicate these analyses the factor using the factor analysis and you can compare what are the differences between two.

Meaning that you do not use the empty car as a DF. You read your file, you have just read.

Okay. So you have read maybe DF or DF. These are the, uh, data, uh, 1000 individual versus uh, I think ten measurements.

And you scale the data and then use it as a factor analysis point of view.

So you can see what are the factors are important. What are the coefficients.

And and you appreciate the fact that those factor analysis resolve some maybe a little bit more interpretable.

Oh, yeah. If you want to impact us in some way from students to the university or maybe even to you.

So I want to sort of work by as well as I have to think of you.

So we are doing it because you have some support, as you know.

And so there's a bit of. Is so, so much easier now.

How's. It going?

So that maybe this is easier. So you may not have a meeting.

So we want you to think one thing is important.

So I have. All these sources come.

And go through some of these. Can you do me. And that's going to be this.

So for the ones who said anything I guess I'll do that.

I can do this. Yeah. Sort of possible. Yeah.

No consequences. But there's also something to do. I mean, do you do when you don't have a strong enough?

Yeah. I mean, I'm not saying, you know, optimize it for you.

Maybe. It's the principle of certain things he wanted to show me.

So. Yeah, I can tell you it's confusing for more variables.

Yeah. I hope it works.

only like this source is using this. Oh, yes.

Now it was an interesting experience.

That is I mean, so this is just a maximum of 70s which is making this week the changing of values as a result of this you wouldn't be.

So it's possible. So you have a sense of well, you know, we know that.

You know, we find in this case a year or so, in this case maybe just in Mexico, it's going to take you.

Right. It's like big data, but it is also you can you can see it is.

What it is I don't know. And this.

Is what I'm saying that you only of Olmedo where you have 2000 you.

No, no. So I don't know if it is I don't think it will be like this.

Yeah. Like they need to think. Yeah.

So I. Think I have to do that.

Yeah. Um, I looking and them and then wondering because we get it we can do.

Not only do you feel like, uh, I, you know, it is like, um, you know, this is.

Yeah. Like what is going to be on my mind, but I think, okay, I think the value.

So this is how do you.

Know that this is the, that I so yeah I suppose.

Yeah. Yeah. That is right before the deadline.

What do think that we have a deal.

That's the deadline for something. Yeah. Yeah. Based on the information.

So. Yeah, yeah.

Um, things we can do. Okay. Go do.

So, um. So if we can do that, I believe we should have a week of what was.

Supposed to be one of the top of this.

You. Can make.

Thank you. Yeah. So, um, these two.

Things. Um. Um. Um.

Um. I enjoy this summer.

And enjoy this number. One on my phone call.

Okay. Something.

I'm. Actually.

Recording. This.

I'm going to. Do this and then use.

Pretty much every Wednesday before you do the.

Study. Yeah. That's. I mean.

You can you do. You have to call some.

Sort of people to be who you are before. Yes I do.

Who? You know.

How it is that. You have to be feeling just a little.

Bit down the throat. Here's an idea.

So we sat down bus recently.

I was in my head 60 to get into two over.

Just didn't and both wanted to go to suck.

Yeah. Then once. I was done.

Yeah. And then the question.

Came and up know.

No. What you. So.

I started off on two men.

I have two for all of you.

So that you keep up with.

It wasn't going to come from we.

So then I was like, I need to. Different.

This is so. Cool.

Who are. You wasting time with?

That question. What? Do you mean?

That's a change from. The early days.

Yeah. You know, I kind of want to.

Give them. More stuff.

So I think you. Know, I mean, the next year or.

Two. Of them might.

Still be. Doing all this good.

Stuff. I don't do. Everything that I'm.

Supposed to do to get hold of the same concept.

It's a cold war. Okay, let's let's discuss.

How does it work? So this particular package, uh, once you install.

Okay, then. I mean, I'm just showing you, um, this example.

And for you, it might be a different one because, uh, you are using the data which I've given to you already.

So in this case, the df df is object. In this case, um, uh, it is an object.

And then as I said, you, it is always a good practice that you check. Uh, what is the DF is going to happen in this case, the dimension of the data?

Yeah. For your case, it might be the very high. Uh.

Um. Uh, not the dimension is very high, but it can be tall data.

Okay. So what I'm doing here, I'm scaling the data so that you have to do as well.

Uh, if I scale the data, I just use the function call scale, um, and, and automatically all the, all the, um, columns will be take into account.

Actually, in that case, you can see the difference is um, between.

So if I say ahead of um, uh DF so if I did ahead of DF so you can see this is, this is the raw data kind of thing.

But then if I, if I just copy paste the scaled version of the data, you can, you can see.

So it is a DF and then I'm replacing by DF by scale you can see this is already scaled okay.

So in in this case this become more quantitative more kind of shape and balance in a way okay.

So that is the first step. The second step is that we are going to consider how many factors are important for my for my analysis.

It's a very similar the way we consider how many um principal components are enough to capture two variables.

So in this case, uh, we are using the plot. So uh, I have type um, it is running.

Okay. It's show me some warning, but that is fine.

Uh, and and you can see here what it did is, um, uh, two different colors, three different color, meaning three different thing.

One is the blue color. Blue color means actual data. So this actual data is showing like this.

They have done some simulation study and resampling just to see the consistency of this one.

And the based on these probably you can see there is no nothing changing that much.

Not not significant amount of changing in eigen values of the principal components.

Okay. So eigenvalue uh, in this case you are intending to take the uh, the components, which is giving you um, very less eigenvalue.

So eigenvalue should be less. In this case it is a directly proportional to the your variance.

So lower eigenvalue higher variance it will be okay. And you can compare like that.

Now in this case probably 3 to 4 principal components are enough.

So once we make this decision we can we can put um we can do this from yeah.

We can put uh, in this particular um.

Okay. So number of factors three adjust based on this. So I have assigned number factor is equal to three.

And then after we assign um uh the number of factor three we are kind of uh putting into the factor.

So factors is equal to number of factors. Number of factors. Just now I assigned is three.

So right. So what is going to happen. NUM factors is going to take three.

Okay. Yeah. NUM factor is going to three. And then and the rotation very max meaning that I am trying to maximize my variance.

Yeah very much I am trying to maximize variance. And then I calculate it and I'm trying to print my results.

How does it look like. Okay. So if I, if I print my results in a, in a way, uh, you can see print results.

You can see many, many different things here. Uh, some information.

Uh, so especially look into the loadings. You can see each of the loading.

Some of them don't get in loading. But factor one is quite enriched with the loadings okay.

So we want to to extract the loadings. And we wanted to check which loadings actually got a very high number or low number.

Um, so um uh so I'm extracting some information here.

So for example, uh, I'm, I'm, I'm printing for uh, results.

And from those results I am kind of a, a take into account only loadings.

And my cutoff is 0.4. Now people do ask me why you have taken this particular cutoff.

I mean, there is not any rule of thumb. I can say if it is, I don't want to take any cutoff in this case, maybe zero if I do.

So I mean, you can see everything is there. Okay.

All the loading values will be there. In this case.

The reason we took into account the cutoff is, you know, we wanted to see which are the measurements are impacting,

uh, these kind of analyses so we can try and look like, like 0.5 or 0.6.

And then we wanted to see which one is actually contributing to that.

Okay. Um, and then you what you do, once you calculate, you can visualize how the loading look like, um, in this, in this format.

Um, yeah.

So you can, you can see what are the contributions actually, uh.

Okay. So you can you can you can see here each of them, each of the factor associated with some numbers.

Those factors are kind of sometimes they're positive some of them the negative. And we can visualize it in a in a very systematic way okay.

Um and that is more visual. And you can see what are the factors actually contributing to.

What are the uh, important ones. So these are the loadings value you can estimate from there as well.

Okay. And then um, and then sometimes uh, there is something called a uniqueness.

Uniqueness meaning that uh, specific variance explained by the factors.

So there are some uh variance which is very much specific to particular loadings.

For example, loading one could have been, uh, the example I was trying to put, um, um, uh, the physics versus mathematics versus history,

maybe loading one is representing more quantitative ness of you factor which is hidden in the analysis.

Loading. Two might be, uh, those who are in verbal communication type of thing.

So, so each of the uniqueness you can quantify those uniqueness by the factor analysis okay.

So so these type of analyses sometimes give you experts and usually people try to use PCA factor analyze it just to understand the data set analysis.

People use more extreme inference or me maybe later on once they identify important variables contributing to the analysis.

Together with the correlation plot I have shown in this part I mentioned dimension reduction.

Yeah. So you dimension will be extremely low. I mean doesn't matter in this case.

So again latent variable modeling, projection based modeling.

This is the area previously you have looked at variable selection method variable selection.

Let's see elastic net automatically select the features. So feature selection variable selection dimension reduction projection based method.

Latent feature structure. So these are the nomenclature people are using in the literature okay.

So so that is the one of the things I wanted to show.

And then um uh.

Okay then. I mean, is it time to show something else for.

Okay. Okay. So here. Uh, there are a couple of other things I put together.

I mean, I mean, you remember now we're going from the unsupervised. We remember supervising.

You remember when we first of all, training, we little talked about DNN deep learning models.

These are the two examples I put together. DNN model is a classification linear model as a regression.

You might want to execute it now or in your free time. That's up to you.

But I thought maybe next few minutes, maybe ten 15 minutes.

We can talk about the questions. Okay. If you have any doubt, anything you can ask me now.

Okay. Because other things are pretty. Pretty like you can you can go to the canvas and execute yourself.

But I thought next ten 15 minutes then you can discuss about overall theme, overall things, what we have discussed in this particular course.

I think today's the last and then you vacation and then you have to submit your thesis.

Okay. So um, not thesis um, and assignment.

Yeah. Assignment. But but many of the people, what they do, uh,

they take the learning from this course and they use the thesis as what we have seen around 70 to 80% people.

They use learning from here. And, uh, also, of course, we need to keep something Python or whatever.

So Python and R is not an issue if you don't think that getting to the problem is how you do things it.

That's the main thing. And interpretation will come from your mostly from your uh uh the more you practice.

Yeah. And so maybe I will just go on to questions.

Immediate questions, not necessarily complex, but overall what you have seen.

I mean, do you have any questions. Do you have any. It could be related to specific topic.

It could be related to any topic you're working with. Because I don't think it is a good idea now because you have done some exercise so far,

the type of thing you can you can easily follow up, uh, these one.

And if you have if you have any questions, you can always reach me out. Yeah.

How many factors are we building? Yeah, that one we have to look at.

Sorry, bro. Yeah, well, this from the Supreme Court isn't the word that we have like three.

Yeah, yeah yeah, yeah. So do you have any questions from from the previous.

The other thing I must say, we have not covered too much on the missing values.

Okay. We have not covered. But I suspect this could be one of the case in your your assignment.

Probably. But in this case, you can just impute by the mean value because missingness is a is it or median.

Usually people use the median type of imputation. Okay I'm talking about imputation.

So you have a couple multiple different options. Either you remove the rows okay.

Let's say you have 1000 individuals only 20. So you remove it.

That's fine. Okay. Uh, but if it is a substantial amount, what does it mean to you?

If it is, a 40% of the 50% of the data is missing, then is a problem.

You cannot throw the data. In that case, you need to do something called imputation.

Imputation, meaning that the process of putting some value in the missing data for fair analysis.

Okay. Uh, missing value is a very, uh, very big topic, actually.

And, uh, but what you can do, you can look out, um, I think I have some PDFs if you can email me if you need anything, you can get anything.

Usually median based missing values, a good mood in the sense because the median value.

Because data might be not normally distributed. So for example if it is skewed here.

So for example there is a difference between the data is like this or data is like this okay.

This is a long tail right skewed. So if you take the mean value the mean median mode is here.

But if you take me in here but actually median will be more appropriate in in that sense.

Okay. So um, that we have not discussed that much.

Uh, outliers. Uh, also you would face um, probably don't care to be uh, uh, but you can do, you can use the hotspots.

Okay. You can use the multiverse. Uh, apart from that, um, I don't know if you have any questions in for me now.

Um, yeah. Everybody, this is your number for the week of execution last week.

Yeah. I like all the models to see what was going on.

And now you can see that. You think I can summarize?

It's too close to what you would approach.

Yes I would. Yeah. In general. Yeah.

So I think it is more than it seems. I mean see the we've been I suppose last night was really important to me.

I mean, as in the last case, I thought, I mean, we I'm not here for perfection.

I want you guys to follow the work flow workflow by the people.

Now these are pointers. Like when I ask you look at this. Well, I actually want you to do some kind of estimates about this event.

If it is there is fine. If not no. Okay. Then I want you to look into the quality distribution of the data descriptive statistics.

And this is a basic way of doing, um, the analysis I think I have discussed in one of the classes what are the basic way of doing know.

First you ask questions. Second thing you look at the quality.

Thirdly, if quality allow you to go to the next steps, then you started doing the model.

The modeling will look at multiple not one method for sure. One because you don't know the truth.

Nobody knows. Nobody knows that. So it is.

You need some sense. You don't know if you are doing mistakes or data is chaotic themselves.

Yeah. If you are doing mistake there is a problem. But then data is themself.

But you need to tell them how you are clean. You are claiming should be.

I have used methods I found similar. The next week I you see method I compared to you for a thing and then we are kind of summarizing this.

Okay. So, uh, I mean, I mean, for the assignments, you can just follow whatever I said in the last piece.

This is a pretty general approach.

It doesn't matter normally for assignment or any future kind of a someone is giving what all we have not done, as I say, missing value.

We can talk about two weeks, 15 days, but this is not possible, obviously.

So many things you need to self-study as well. It is not like 100% depends on that.

So you need to fill it in and then dig into that and then ask me questions.

I don't know if that's okay, I can work. How many hours looking for a book that you can find?

Yeah. Um, one more important thing.

Please do read the papers. Papers I put because of reason, not because of you.

I like the paper. And we know there must be some reason why it would be okay.

And this will give you a real avenue.

I mean, why people are using it? And what is the benefit of using.

And this is suggested that you do some discussions around those in your in your five minute presentation.

Right. You present I to me to tell me that, okay, you can read the last page.

You need to say why the context of the day.

Put in this talk, then why what other people have done.

So I can you going to record it. No. Or some video presentation that you submit and then a live presentation.

I like to like uh. From home um presentation if you don't know.

Do you have if I had one, if you call me two minutes, three minutes, then I won't go.

Then why didn't you go? Bye bye. Bye bye bye. The whole bye bye takes a lot of.

Effort tonight. And then there will be pressure on so many of us.

So the video, ten minutes in person did the video.

It's a contemporary or. I mean, it depends on how you want to present the video or you.

So it can the video can run at this time and not.

A big one. You have to do that.

But anyways, if you have to do that on the there then you go to the last.

But you said that you know.

2026. Two zero.

Good luck in reception before on the Wednesday Wednesday morning.

So since you guys are very sincere, very few people come.

Um, I mean, when I said seven, you could come in.

Not everyone. Like if one group wanting to do it, um, you can do it, but but you don't have to be specific in that.

If you want to be there, then you do it. That's fine. Yeah, but everybody in the group, uh.

The way we did blockchain was we had a review that we submitted it and then we presented it.

We didn't just some on the video. We explained everything you did.

You never do that. No no no that is not required.

So so this is not an undergraduate assignment, you know. So I don't expect you to tell me I did this.

But he did know that I liked what you did. Yeah.

So this is more like a presentation.

So once you do this presentation, it's more like you're presenting it to your client for you to get a job or you to get the product running.

You know, it's it's not like an as a school assignment.

It's more like, uh, professional classical, you know, branded presentations can become can can be very tough.

You know, they, they will cut short asking questions. So what is it then for me?

Why should we collaborate? What children. You know, they will just they because they might not be interested.

So presentation decks for mediums. Uh, about five slides, 5 to 10.

And on the third slide should be, uh, for example, financial flows.

You don't have to do that, but don't need the presentation more than five to 7 to 10.

Know that you are thinking about. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

So, uh, there are a couple of things I want to say for the presentation thing.

And that is coming from the module three for another post I am telling.

So I'm telling you that here is one so we can present.

I can meet you will succeed.

You can thank you for this. You know some people I see one guys physically.

Yeah. This is what I waiting when the things is going to happen.

Please don't go on. This shows I mean you have done it and it's not.

I'm saying for the client will kind if be promoted like I the never come because you don't show the film speed why should I.

And if there is more than okay. By asking related questions for it's not you are challenging.

I mean we learn from challenges, right? I mean, people are touchy. I mean, you could you some it's not about personal liberty.

Maybe you are a friend but valid things for us.

I mean, you might feel awkward in the class, but what if your interview this question asked, do you feel awkward?

No. You take it like, oh, they show that one of your friends. So they're here for some reason, right?

I mean, you can do x, y, z, but why not? Why did critically reflect you what you've done?

Okay. Do not copy paste your whole part of the script. No.

I give zero marks out of it. I'm telling you. Uh, no.

So what I do, I tell people this is. No, don't do it. I am cutting marks.

And I also tell what question I'm going to ask. So. So my instructions are very positive.

Okay. Steal the meat. And I am showing, you know, I like I asked other people how much should I give better.

Okay. So I give decision to them because this is not a good way.

You choose me. You are lazy. You need Python.

In our markdown you copy paste a confusion matrix. Very surprising.

You just need to make an Excel copy and then you get why you have to copy paste.

I'm interested to see and see how you present your figures to it.

Okay. Um, yeah. So that is the thing.

It's always good to make figures and diagrams and then, of course, figures and diagrams.

How to make figures and diagrams. Okay.

Explain when necessary. What does it mean? I mean, we have only those we know.

So in my course. What if we want me to build a business?

But I work with a lot of diseases and some disease. Okay, so people are telling sevens, like some cancer, please.

Like some modeling. Just because you are medical doctor, you can do that.

Okay. And opposite happens all the way down as well. All all all model model model.

No relevance with the context. So you need to make a balance for this okay.

Please avoid unnecessary content. Do not tell us okay. Conclusions like it's very important cuz you're learning your thoughts okay.

What you're learning. Okay. Given your six months training, how better you conduct.

Who? Choose. Okay. Logical thought.

One example. If you choose. I mean, I'm in jeans, but if you choose to measure weight, why you choose improperly.

If I use. But if you use random forest, you are taking to fight.

Got three. But if I use the shoe, the decision goes to the algorithm.

Okay, so you blame algorithm. Okay, so think about those things.

He died of difficult quality. And this I can so speak about okay.

Because sometimes.

And lastly there was a presentation because we we do presentation of the modules master program meaning the presentations and soft skills develop.

Okay. One person put four figures in one slide okay.

One person a one person group one is here, here, here here.

Okay. Now I ask you in figure eight I cannot read it.

Can you read. You can tell me what you put the text. But he is not able to read.

And then I asked for how much Mark I should give for that. You can, because I have told you.

And I told them. If you don't listen to me in the class, I will do double negative, not negative, double negative.

So if it's a 20 year pass mark.

50%. Usually in my courses. So you got built in five minutes ago.

It would be minus five. And then you need to work for other.

Other other sections. Really? Why double?

Because I told you every trust these things. And you have no say in this.

So I have to I mean, I have, yeah, I go by route.

I'm sorry. Uh, okay. So you can have readability.

Number one. Why do you think. Why do I believe you even might be working 24 hours, 48 hours, whatever.

Be zero for that. So, please, if you cannot read, I cannot read.

It goes for writing paper computers as well. Okay.

I can give you responsibility to make other make your paper.

Because. What? Interesting. Not my meaning. Okay.

That's the point. Maintain the uniformity. If you use the same form, maintain the same form.

So help me to get Calibri or New Times throughout 2012.

Everything consistent. Okay. If it is a text board.

Yeah. So this would be very good for you right in your you will be submitting your document to okay.

If you do a box plot, you are not making the standard deviation in the box for.

How do I see the variability. How do I estimate how I get the sense of the video?

I can't even even the figure. Ask yourself, isn't it so P value meaning that you are holding a value.

You are showing me certain, significant and explicit 100 designs.

Show me the data. Show me the probability that you show me this test. You come.

So quite important. And if you can follow these actually this is your transferable skills.

So go meet people marketing Google job in marketing related financial health.

You know whatever these will be most importantly how you're going to present it.

Self esteem okay. Make a private eye contact.

Some people you know what very surprising talking like this.

And then I mean I mean anytime 15 minutes he was talking like this.

It moves signal timing I don't. Notice any of them is very surprising.

Not a single time I watched them and then, I don't know, I drink a couple of glasses of water and this one by just this chap, you know,

and then and then say, okay, I mean, do you think we are going to be eating or tweeting or something, you know, are you scared of us or something?

And I have all these questions. Yeah.

So I always you look at the things you see, I mean he's going to on vacation is what I'm doing for being with you.

I don't want one person.

You almost, you know, I don't like, you know, people are pressuring me, maybe pressuring you, but you're the big for any time.

I mean, you can do x, y, z, and they're they're lovers.

You can get you can show your enthusiasm just for your birthday. Hey.

So, so so this is. I mean, it is not there in the canvas.

This is, um, uncertain something. Yeah.

So. So please, uh, maintain those spots.

I mean, uh, but, uh, I tend to be clear and transparent, and I think by forcing you can learn a bit, um, and, uh.

Yeah, uh, these are the few things, uh, to consider, if you like.

So yesterday, you know, I had a bit. I had to present something to the.

Group to this, uh, this guy. So my funders, you know, so it was a very big presentation.

And, uh, so there were many guys who got funding and those guys so I could present so people who are presenting presentations.

I mean, these are the kinds of presentation people were presenting.

What is that? But if it's slightly, uh, but what I did was I just presented the download which you made for the policymakers.

So so this was my presentation. You know, it's very simple.

It's unlocking a new wave of clean energy. This we did for the UK government.

Very simple. Have the form. This is the dashboard form. Form data.

Very simple. United self scenario.

So this is something which everyone likes. So you know you can increase the speed and you can increase the CapEx.

And you can see how the break even point changes. So the slider function you can do this and some lines goes up goes down validity analysis quickly.

You tell them what are the carbon impact you use.

It's it's very less word. But the you don't have to for 50 plus less than two blah blah blah.

So it looks a bit good. And the main thing is the policy brief.

So we did it for 30 actually. And then you spend most of the time that you know, in the policy of this as I said, but these are very small,

you know, so you are not expected to read it, but you are expected you can even read the above.

So you just have to read it. So, so see this was I think and then you is involved on a presentation.

But I actually have not put anything on the presentation. Simply the dashboard was presented to policymakers.

I went and presented that. But even like this, you know, 1015 slides.

So we did this. This is my review question,

research question that is not required because the review question and the research question should be there on the overview.

So what am I doing.

So if you just look at it, you know, you give them a figure on knocking on you with all clean energy in it sets the base whatever you do.

And then, you know, proximity multiplier capacity added CO2 savings and carbon payback.

So, you know, you set the tone upgrade. And this is what we can provide.

So what we can provide is blah blah blah. And this is my policy.

So you know in one go you can so you can you can think something of this or you know, which will be different.

Many people use Canva. Canva will be out of business.

You know, it is all almost out of business because somebody that's who came from and uh, so I think, uh,

it is more about how to make the presentation meaningful to someone who is going to buy the product from you.

Uh, see, at the end of the day, you know, uh, the, the clients, they don't care about machine learning, uh, because that is the engine, right?

What they care is what is the output. So you have to tell them that this is off.

So if you use us, we will do this. And this is, uh, so if it's not a technical client, and if you keep on telling them about,

uh, you know, various models and things like that, they want our baseline.

Yes. So I think that is the key. But this is a technical class.

So that does not mean that we can't give you something about comparisons of model Y.

You use that. So it is very advanced when it comes to a technology that you are selling it to work.

And then for example, you are selling I was in uh, you are the, in the I was in EPF and as a keynote speaker in Belgium, so there was no problem.

Uh, so we were talking about volatility modeling so that if I say blockchain and liquidity,

there will be but that that thinking about the modeling value of money and how much they are.

So we all spoke about society and just and love that how you can be.

So the presentation was completely different, you know, rather than just presented.

And there were no presentations, you know, like this. Everything was already delivering it.

So it on what planned, what is what is said technology.

And then you talk a little bit so but not overdo it I don't know you know.

But anyway so yeah okay. So if you have any questions about your assignment please contact me or on whatever.

We are happy to talk. Yeah but but follow some of the key.

And I don't think if you like, like if you are learning more and more from here, it will be benefit better value for future other modules.

Anything. Yeah. Okay. So, uh, yeah, I think we can see that.

Um, yeah. Thank you, thank you.

Okay. All right. But, uh, as I say, I mean, it is so general, the these methodologies, I mean,

I, I don't do personally work on the financial data, but you can see that.

I mean, does it feel like that? It's we cannot use it. It doesn't matter.

I mean, it matters. You understand the data. It matters. Are you going to focus on the problem domain?

I have neither technical background, neither finance background I think background.

So I go all the people. So in that so what I do I keep the people who know the in the people they don't know, I, I, I haven't done that.

So he's patient machine. So that is it for me.

So we can work on the data whatever anything that would.

All right. It was really great. Yeah, yeah, it was really great to interact and and personally, because I am coming from also in the lateral,

my participation might be different but technologically wise methodological wise similar.

You see what I mean. So so that's why it is quite, quite interesting in both the ways.

Yeah. Okay. Great. Okay. All the best. Yeah.

And see you around that. But that's not. What?

You. Intend.

To. Do.

Yes. Okay. No, no. Well, let me see.

Yeah. So if you like. But I mean.

I might say oh, bloody [INAUDIBLE] is like.

Yeah. Yeah, yeah.

Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.

Yeah yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.

Yeah. Come on. Yeah yeah yeah.

Yeah yeah. Oh. Thank you. We have an option. For it.

And. I'm gonna give you this is.

Uh, a lot of. People here who are not.

You know, this is that I remember. Uh. Okay. Great.

Now, who's. One of them.

I. Don't know who I am and all that.

I know there is no difference. For the.

Day. Yeah. If you work on these. Things, I want you to know that your application.

Is going to improve. Yeah. So you see what I mean?

Anything you say. Okay. So. Yeah. And if you get lucky to have you in my community, I like it.

A lot, a lot. For me, because I'm really only superior.

To the whole time I learn to use learning like the finance system, like endowment for International Peace.

Yeah. I don't even like that, you know, it's awesome.

Yeah, yeah, this is not right now.

But if you have to put this in a link like it.

Was something that. I didn't even.

Know about. Yeah. This is your.

Life is like your. Fingers.

And it's like. If I don't, I'm nothing but you know.

What? You. You need sponsorship.

Okay? Yeah, I think so.

Tomorrow I'm going to do all these other ones.

What the [INAUDIBLE]? Yeah. Let's be in the game.

Where you. Yeah. I don't feel like you're making.

I am very real.

I do want to. But. It takes.

A while to get things done. And I think that you can use all of this.

But if it doesn't work out, I might just. Yeah, it was like 16 GB Ram or one D1.

This is how I'm going to be. Able to do it like, you know I got this one 5G v2 and I know none of them isn't good for you.

Um, yeah. Yeah. So you feel sorry for me?

Uh. So.

All of that was there, and there's no reason.

To do this. Okay, guys. And so are you on the map.

Uh, not so much. Yeah. So. I'm so sorry.

I'm sorry, I don't. Know what to say.

I know I described that, you know, relation to the information that just the absence of the primacy or.

And it's like. So you're right, you're right, you're right.

Yeah. It's really it's funny. Yeah. Because when you're in the presence.

Of people over, you know. Yeah. Yeah, I saw it.

Yeah I, I, you know. Oh yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.

Exactly. That's why. I, you know, it's.

Just, you know, that's that's all good. Yeah.

All right. Well, now as far as, like, all this stuff.

Stuff. Yeah. All right. Okay.

See you tomorrow. Is that what? You say that.

Okay. Since. Where were you tomorrow with The Undefeated?

You know we've had enough of this. We don't like them.

What do you mean? Are you crazy? Or we are going to play with you.

Yeah, I'm sitting at home and we'll be sitting with them.

Yeah, yeah, yeah, they're good lately. They're not funny.

So you didn't hear. Morning. Morning at 615?

Yeah. And, uh, since I'm really positive it'll be, like, seven hours, I don't.

Easy. Six plus six can go for six in the summer.

Okay, then. That's fine. So, um, mean, I don't that you want people to do what you do later.

Yeah, yeah. So every member of our group, especially, they do the presentation.

So we have to be so simple.

Yeah. Yeah. And this is one of them.

Something of a. Software development.

So that's like that, you know. But before then, and now that I this.

Is think about this. What do you me to know?

That is just because. What do you mean?

What do you mean? He's like, we need to go further.

They're mostly political, so let's go.

Ahead and do this, you know.

So she was continuously put. It was the last thing you put in this movie, which was showing up to the public for some of the food.

So what we ended up with the most of the open is usually because they knew all about marketing the production.

So we were going to get into that.

Then you need to know who they are to be so you don't.

But for six months you would try to get the private equity market, not the reason that you need some help at all.

So first you understand the priority. How do we actually do this?

Okay. It's something that. So let's focus into this offer and how we do it all.

I mean I'm just hiding because it's easy.

I mean, have you two the number of stakeholders you've been putting down, getting into my opinion, getting people to.

Sit down because it's quite easy. If you're not here, you can also.

Go inside. This is a building and this one is larger than that.

So you ready when you feel comfortable.

This is awesome. So that's great.

So. You don't have to be part of it.

And you're not doing any kind of work.

We will be keeping in touch with that. Yeah. He will be doing this together to support you.

So that is something he's catching up on is that we need because they dropped one heart.

Yeah. With the reading program as well. Yeah.

So I let me just write to five of the designers.

What do we have to discuss? You do have all of this.

Which one? That one in the board. We got moving.

Or did you take a picture? I almost had it as a guide.

Uh, yes. For myself in my home. What is your boarding leave for you?

I don't understand personally for the majority of people.

3397397.

I sent you over two years ago. I could 39768900.

Okay, so tomorrow and tomorrow it's 45 oh.

00000.

So the first one is going to be, uh, what was his race?

Oh. That's funny. I don't think so. Oh.

Go ahead. That's so sad that so many of us, like I did this, and I didn't really.

I'm not good at it. No, it's not that something.

Um, I'm. I'm going. I'm not going to remember what I do for, like, a month.

I go see if I have money, I go. Home.

Yeah, yeah. Makes sense.

Yeah. I mean, if you want some money, I yeah, I do, but I, I if I have this one so I think that I will go find the phrase one on one.

Where do you see my list. Yeah. Yeah.

I guess you would lose this number.

And as you probably know other countries as well.

Well then do you just stay at home? That's cool.

But what do I mean? Uh, are you still up for grabs?

Or is it just to get up and just go to bed?

Wow. Okay. Yeah. They. All know that I'm 93.

I mean, that was the only assignment I loved.

Oh. Well, I hope because, you know, it's worth it.

Plus, I have four fingers, you know.

Oh, yeah. Yeah. And who am I to talk about the score?

That's a [INAUDIBLE] of an hour. How are they?

Yesterday and, uh, yesterday, it was easy. Yeah, it's much more quickly than I expected.

I just learned something. Everything I knew I had to go to this time.

Oh, yes, you did. That's what I thought.

So, what do you like? Are you trying to find me? I mean, I come from an open family.

Something. Like that?

Yeah, I really like that. I mean, like I said, you said it was.

It was open. Look, I do know that some 80% improvement is good.

Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Team security.

What's up? Oh my God.

Yeah, yeah. We love we have to do the disco results now.

We have to pull that off. Okay then.

See you on bike tomorrow. Yeah, and 4 to 5.

I think I might. All.

Right. This is. Well.

This is really. I love that you can see all this.

It's amazing. I.

I'm. And get with this.

I'm not sure. Because you are. Um.

Gender. Yesterday for.

Uh, dimensions of difficulty. Um.

I think we need to. Be really good.

Not just in any competition. I think the of this is going to be rather different.

Thank you for what you did. And then, no pun intended.

And also no random double movement.

What? Will this do so again to prevent an infectious disease?

In my opinion, as long as you do, you'll still need to do all sorts of things to be okay.

I don't, I don't think, but I can, you know, they.

Won't want me. And I never said that.

Then no. Today you're just going after you just to relax and.

Then you go from this intended. And I know, I know, and I want you to know I'm not at all good and happy.

When? But.

But. Right.

Um. She is the who.

How do I do that? And Bill and I have said this.

In. Listen to greetings to a lot of people.

Me and. You wanna come?

So. Neutral.

Under the. Umbrella.

Under. His.

Name. If you don't believe.

Okay, do you think? You can even get yourself some.

Francesco. You reckon every appointment cancelled when you.

Go in the cycle? Yes.

They are booked for Tuesday. Okay.

Okay. Mm.

Mm. Yeah.

I want to ask what else can be conscious of that.

Yeah. Yeah.

Mhm. Then.

Yeah. Right?

Yeah. Okay.

If you come by the name, you can go to.

When you come here, what can want? I need you to.

Do that. You have. In.

And. What else you need in.

Intimidated attending the meeting. He remained in the kitchen, heading to work.

I hope I didn't. I'm tempted to. Commit to doing that to the man.

Who was truly grateful for everything happening to us.

And then. I'm not something I'm going to.

There no later than. In.

And bodies is offering. Less than 10% in reporting double duty.

Yeah, but before that, we were getting the Green Hornet.

Before. I'm gonna have to.

And a. Okay, let's go back to the kitchen and then take charge of the clothing subscription.

Notice. But.

But then you have to go on without me.

I. Believe in myself to protect the integrity.

2420. So I see them through.

Then you go back. And didn't you go to the United Kingdom?

I think. Yeah, I think London might.

Then my confidence. Save my tax.

Yes. For that one.

If there is anything incorrect in your home.

Or factory. If you make it. You'll have to go there in the back.

We have to go back again. If you have a chance, you will most likely.

Be uncomfortable. You're doing any of the following in.

What do. You need them to be able to read.

Remember that people going to be in the planning.

Yes, if you care about finding.

It seems to me that I have to have something. Yes.

You will have to contact me. I mean, you should go back to the plane.

What about you? What do you mean? You are working my way to working.

Work? I have to with you.

Very high value for money.

I don't think I can work. I work in different environment and I have to ensure.

Thank you. Can we get anything out? But.

I have. We can get that.

Money? Yeah. How do you.

How do you think about what's happening right now?

You know, you can. See my confidence.

You are inquiring about me? Is that correct?

Yeah. You know I can help you with that.

You're welcome. I don't want you to think about it.

I have to wait. For a couple of days.

Or have to have you come over for.

I can't do anything for you.

I have to wait. You have you have you have you have you have you.

Have. You.

Have you have you have you.

Have. You are. Where?

You. Hydrogen.

What? If any children from play.

Welcome. It wouldn't have been cool.

On a busy Wednesday for. And.

You went to Vegas, you know. And I mean, but it was.

I mean, some of you. Will been able to get into doing that.

Okay. I'm. Looking forward.

To seeing you again. Because. One.

More. Important.

